ITEM 1A. Risk Factors This section describes material risks to our businesses that currently are known to us. You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks and factors listed below, however, are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. Other known risks that we currently believe to be immaterial could become material in the future. We also are subject to legal and regulatory changes. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company We may not be able to grow successfully through future acquisitions or successfully manage future growth, and we may not be able to effectively integrate the businesses we do acquire. We have historically grown through strategic acquisitions of other businesses. We may not be able to continue to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or successfully acquire those opportunities identified. In order to complete acquisitions, we would expect to require additional debt and/or equity financing, which could increase our interest expense, leverage and shares outstanding. Businesses that we acquire may not perform as expected. Future revenues, profits and cash flows of an acquired business may not materialize due to the failure or inability to capture expected synergies, increased competition, regulatory issues, changes in market conditions, or other factors beyond our control. In addition, we may not be successful in integrating future acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention. Even if we are successful in integrating our current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies or earnings gains, that we expected from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of our capital resources without the expected returns on such capital. Also, competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making further acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making additional acquisitions. Additional risks related to acquisitions include, but are not limited to: • the potential disruption of our existing businesses; • entering new markets or industries in which we have limited prior experience; • difficulties integrating and retaining key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel or diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to integration matters; • difficulties integrating or expanding information technology systems and other business processes or administrative infrastructures to accommodate the acquired businesses; 12 Table of Contents • complexities associated with managing the combined businesses and consolidating multiple physical locations; • risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; and • whether any necessary additional debt or equity financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and the impact of such financing on our operating performance and results of operations. Our historical mergers and acquisitions make evaluating our operating results difficult given the significance of these transactions to our business, and historical and unaudited pro forma financial information may not give you an accurate indication of how we will perform in the future. Our historical acquisition activities, in particular the Power Fuels merger, may make it more difficult for us to evaluate and predict our future operating performance. Our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2012 include the results of operations of Power Fuels from the date of acquisition, November 30, 2012, through December 31, 2012. Our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 include the results of operations of Power Fuels for the full fiscal year. Unaudited pro forma financial information giving effect to the Power Fuels merger does not represent, and should not be relied upon as reflecting, what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows actually would have been if the transactions referred to therein had been consummated on the dates or for the periods indicated, or what such results will be for any future date or any future period. We are vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced, and the continued growth that we expect to experience organically and through acquisitions. Our growth places additional demands and responsibilities on our management to, among other things, maintain existing customers and attract new customers, recruit, retain and effectively manage employees, as well as expand operations and integrate customer support and financial control systems. The following factors could present difficulties to us: lack of sufficient executive-level personnel, increased administrative burden, long lead times associated with acquiring additional equipment; availability of suitable acquisition candidates, trucks, saltwater disposal wells, frac tanks, rail cars, processing facilities and pipeline right-of-way; and the ability to provide focused service attention to our customers, among others. Future charges due to possible impairments of assets may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. As discussed more fully in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Developments—Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Goodwill” included in Item 7 herein, during the year ended December 31, 2013 we recorded asset impairments totaling $210.4 million, including $98.5 million of goodwill related to TFI and $111.9 million of long-lived assets related to our Shale Solutions business. If there is further deterioration in our business operations or prospects, our stock price, the broader economy or our industry, the value of our long-lived assets and goodwill, or those we may acquire in the future, could decrease significantly and result in additional impairment and financial statement write-offs. The testing of long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the composition of our reporting units; changes in economic, industry or market conditions; changes in business operations; changes in competition; or potential changes in the share price of our common stock and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or differences in our actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, could affect the fair value of long-lived assets and goodwill, which may result in further impairment charges. 13 Table of Contents The goodwill impairment test has two steps. The first step of the goodwill impairment test, used to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount including goodwill. During the three months ended September 30, 2013, we performed step one of the goodwill impairment test for each of our four reporting units: the Shale Solutions reporting unit, the Industrial Solutions reporting unit, the Pipeline reporting unit and the AWS reporting unit. To measure the fair value of each reporting unit, we used a combination of the discounted cash flow method and the guideline public company method. Based on the results of the step-one goodwill impairment review we concluded the fair values of the Shale Solutions, Pipeline and AWS reporting units exceeded their respective carrying amounts and accordingly, the second step of the impairment test was not necessary for these reporting units. Conversely, we concluded the fair value of the Industrial Solutions reporting unit was less than its carrying value thereby requiring us to proceed to the second step of the two-step goodwill impairment test. The second step of the goodwill impairment test, used to measure the amount of the impairment loss, compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with its carrying amount. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. After allocating the fair value of Industrial Solutions to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, we concluded the carrying value of reporting unit goodwill exceeded its implied fair value. Accordingly, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $98.5 million in 2013 which is recorded within loss from discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. We have $408.7 million in goodwill as of December 31, 2013 related to our Shale Solutions reportable segment, which has been allocated to our Shale Solutions, Pipeline and AWS reporting units. As described in the preceding paragraphs, the results of our impairment test during the third quarter of 2013, which we updated through September 30, 2013 (our annual testing date), indicated that the goodwill relating to each of these reporting units was not impaired at June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013, since the estimated fair values of all reporting units exceeded their carrying values. With respect to the Pipeline and AWS reporting units, the estimated fair values of the reporting units exceeded their carrying values by a substantial amount. However, while no impairment was indicated as a result of our analysis and testing at June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, or from our subsequent review at December 31, 2013, we determined that our Shale Solutions reporting unit, with goodwill of $390.7 million, had an estimated fair value that exceeded its carrying value by less than 3.5 percent. The fair values of each of the reporting units as well as the related assets and liabilities utilized to assess the 2013 impairment were measured using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs as described in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the assumptions used in our discounted cash flow analysis are appropriate and result in reasonable estimates of the implied fair value of each reporting unit. However, these assumptions are subject to uncertainty and relatively small declines in the future performance or cash flows of the Shale Solutions reporting unit or small changes in other key assumptions may result in the recognition of impairment charges, which could be significant. We believe the most significant assumption used in our analysis is the expected improvement in the margins and overall profitability of our reporting units. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, a hypothetical decline of greater than 65 basis points in the operating margin in our Shale Solutions reporting unit would result in an estimated carrying value in excess of its fair value, requiring us to proceed to the second step of the goodwill impairment test. Additionally, we may not meet our revenue growth targets, our working capital needs and capital expenditures may be higher than forecast, changes in credit or equity markets may result in changes to our cost of capital and discount rate and general business conditions may result in changes to the terminal value assumptions for our reporting units. One or more of these factors, among others, could result in additional impairment charges. In evaluating the reasonableness of our fair value estimates, we consider (among other factors) the relationship between our book value, the market price of our common stock and the fair value of our reporting units. At December 31, 2013, the closing market price of our common stock was $16.79 per share compared to our book value per share of $24.79 as of such date. Our assessment assumes this relationship is temporary; however, if our book value per share continues to exceed our market price per share for an extended period of time, this would likely indicate the occurrence of events or changes that could cause us to revise our fair value estimates and perform a step-two goodwill impairment analysis. While we believe that our estimates of fair value are reasonable, we will continue to monitor and evaluate this relationship in 2014. 14 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2013, we announced a plan to realign our Shale Solutions business into three operating divisions: (1) the Northeast Division comprising the Marcellus and Utica Shale areas (2) the Southern Division comprising the Haynesville, Barnett, Eagle Ford, Mississippian Shale areas and Permian Basin and (3) the Rocky Mountain Division comprising the Bakken Shale area. The implementation of this organizational realignment is ongoing and is expected to be completed in 2014. In connection with these planned organizational changes, we are evaluating whether the new operating divisions constitute separate operating segments and if so, whether two or more of them can be aggregated into one or more reportable segments. As the organizational realignment progresses, we will continue to evaluate its potential impact on our reporting units, which is a level of reporting at which goodwill is tested for impairment. To the extent we conclude the composition of our reporting units has changed, we will be required to allocate goodwill on a relative fair value basis to the new reporting units and test the newly-allocated goodwill for impairment should triggering events occur. We may experience impairment of our long-lived assets and goodwill as a result of this reallocation. Should the value of our long-lived assets and goodwill become impaired, we would incur additional charges which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and could result in our incurring additional net operating losses in future periods. We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of long-lived assets or goodwill, although not requiring any additional cash outlay, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. We may not recognize the anticipated benefits of our proposed disposition of the Industrial Solutions business or any other divestitures we may pursue in the future. As described in Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein, in October 2013, our Board of Directors authorized commencement of a process for the divestiture of TFI, comprising our Industrial Solutions operating segment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sell TFI. Additionally, we may evaluate other potential divestiture opportunities with respect to portions of our business from time to time, and may determine to proceed with a divestiture opportunity if and when we believe such opportunity is consistent with our business strategy and we would be able to realize value for our stockholders in so doing. Any divestiture or disposition, including the planned disposition of TFI, could expose us to significant risks, including, without limitation, fees for legal and transaction-related services, diversion of management resources, transaction execution risks (including risks resulting from buyer financing and due diligence contingencies and other closing conditions), loss of key personnel and reduction in revenue. Further, we may be required to retain or indemnify a buyer against certain liabilities and obligations in connection with any such divestiture, and we may also become subject to third-party claims arising out of such divestiture. In addition, we may not achieve the expected price in a divestiture transaction, including the proposed sale of TFI, which could result in additional losses being recorded. If we do not realize the expected strategic, economic or other benefits of any divestiture transaction, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A divesture of TFI may be subject to various third party consents. There can be no assurances that we will obtain any necessary consents of governmental authorities or other third parties, including consent of the lenders under our credit facility, that might be required in order for us to sell TFI or effectuate any other divesture. We anticipate that the expected sale of TFI in 2014 will take the form of a stock sale of TFI rather than a sale of TFI’s assets which will likely result in a significant capital loss for tax purposes, due to our substantially higher tax basis in TFI stock than TFI’s tax basis in its assets. A significant portion of the goodwill impairment charge recorded in the three months ended September 30, 2013 did not result in a reduction of our tax basis in the stock of TFI. We will not be able to carry any recognized capital loss resulting from a sale of TFI stock back to prior years as we did not generate capital gains nor pay any federal tax during such prior carryback years. We also do not currently expect to have significant capital gains in the five succeeding carryforward tax years to offset the capital loss carryforward. Consequently, we expect that any deferred tax asset resulting from a capital loss generated from the sale of TFI stock will require a valuation allowance. If we are unable to consummate the divestiture of TFI for any reason, our business could be adversely impacted and, in addition, we would be subject to the risks associated with the continued operation of TFI’s 15 Table of Contents business, including (without limitation) operational, financial, legal, environmental and regulatory and compliance risks, any or all of which could be material to our business. We depend on our senior management. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people and, in particular, the continued services of Mr. Johnsrud, our Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman. The loss of the services of Mr. Johnsrud, or of other members of our senior management, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth. We are engaged in litigation relating to China Water and Drinks Inc., our former China water bottling business which was disposed of in 2011, and a negative outcome in any of these proceedings could materially adversely affect us. As more fully described Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein, we and certain of our directors and officers are involved in class action litigation arising from or relating to our acquisition of China Water and Drinks, Inc., or “China Water,” in October 2008. This litigation is causing us to incur substantial legal fees and expenses as well as requiring significant management attention. During the quarter ended September 30, 2013, we recorded a charge of $16.0 million to establish an accrual related to the China Water class action litigation. Settlement discussions with the plaintiffs, through the mediator, continued during the period December 2013 through February 2014. On March 4, 2014, we reached an agreement in principle to settle this matter by entering into a Stipulation of Settlement with the plaintiffs. Under the terms of the agreement, which must be approved by the court, we have agreed to a cash payment of $13.5 million, a portion of which will come from remaining insurance proceeds, as well as the issuance of 0.8 million shares of our common stock. We have agreed to provide a floor value of $13.5 million on the equity portion of the settlement. Consequently, if the value of the shares is below $13.5 million at the time of the final court approval of the Stipulation of Settlement, we will be required to contribute additional shares (or cash, at our option) to make the total value of the settlement equal to $27.0 million. The cash payment is expected to be deposited into escrow prior to June 30, 2014 and the shares will be issued when the settlement proceeds are distributed to the claimants. The Stipulation of Settlement remains subject to court approval and will resolve all claims asserted against us and individual defendants in the case. As a result of the pending settlement of this matter, we recorded an additional charge of $7.0 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2013 to effectively accrue for the proposed settlement. We could incur additional charges in future periods if the market value of the 0.8 million shares exceeds $13.5 million upon issuance. The litigation environment in which we operate poses a significant risk to our businesses. We are involved in the ordinary course of business in a number of lawsuits involving employment, commercial, and environmental issues, and other claims for injuries and damages, among other matters. We may experience negative outcomes in such lawsuits in the future. Any such negative outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We evaluate litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from such assessments and estimates. The settlement or resolution of such claims or proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, judges and juries in certain jurisdictions in which we conduct business (including certain areas in the State of Texas) have demonstrated a willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs in personal injury, property damage and other tort cases. We use appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against us, but the litigation environment in these areas poses a significant business risk to us. 16 Table of Contents A large verdict was rendered against our subsidiary Heckmann Water Resources (CVR), Inc. in late 2013, and an adverse outcome in this case could adversely impact our business. In December 2013, an adverse jury verdict was rendered against our subsidiary Heckmann Water Resources (CVR), Inc. in Dimmitt County, Texas in a wrongful death case involving a vehicle accident. The jury awarded $281.6 million in damages, which award was subsequently reduced to $163.8 million when the judgment was signed in January 2014. Our insurers have provided a surety bond of $25.0 million to stay enforcement of the judgment until the Texas appeals process is final. There will be no final resolution of the trial court judgment until the appellate process is concluded or the case is otherwise resolved. We have agreed to indemnify our insurance carriers, subject to a complete reservation of rights, up to $9.0 million, for losses sustained in excess of the insurance coverage of $16.0 million in connection with the surety bond. Heckmann Water Resources (CVR), Inc. has filed motions in the trial court seeking, among other things, a new trial. If the motions are denied, it will continue the legal process in the appellate courts. The post-trial defense phase of this case could be expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. It also may significantly divert the attention of our management and other key personnel. We may also be subject to negative publicity due to this case. In the event that we are ultimately unsuccessful in our post-trial defense, we could be required to pay significant damages in excess of the amount covered by insurance of $16.0 million. In the event this outcome occurred, our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Although our subsidiary Heckmann Water Resources (CVR), Inc. is the defendant in this case, one set of Plaintiffs filed a post-trial declaratory judgment action alleging that Nuverra Environmental Solutions, Inc. and Heckmann Water Resources Corp. are the alter egos of Heckmann Water Resources (CVR), Inc. and, therefore these entities are jointly and severally liable for the judgment against Heckmann Water Resources (CVR), Inc. in the wrongful death action. Although we intend to vigorously defend against this declaratory judgment action, a negative outcome in this declaratory judgment action or in any other aspect of this case could have a material adverse impact on other entities in our corporate structure and on our business as a whole. We currently estimate the potential loss for these cases to range between zero and the maximum judgment amount and accrued interest. The trial court judgment or any revised result that may be achieved through an appeals process (which could take several years to complete) could result in multiple potential outcomes within this range. Considering the status of the judicial process and based on currently available information, we have determined that this claim is not yet probable and have not established a reserve for this matter at this time. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to establish significant reserves in connection with this matter in the future, and to the extent any such accrued liability is not fully offset by insurance recoveries it could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation related to personal injury from the operation of our business may result in significant liabilities and limit our profitability. The hazards and risks associated with the transport, storage, and handling and disposal of our customers’ waste (such as fires, spills, explosions and accidents) may expose us to personal injury claims, property damage claims and/or products liability claims from our customers or third parties. As protection against such claims and operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we may sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. As more fully described in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein, due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits, and we may be held liable for significant personal injury or damage to property or third parties, or other losses, that are not fully covered by our insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Significant capital expenditures are required to conduct our business. The development of our business and services, excluding acquisition activities, requires substantial capital expenditures. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we made capital expenditures of approximately $46.6 million primarily including (a) completion of our saltwater pipeline in the Haynesville shale area, (b) new 17 Table of Contents disposal wells or upgrades to existing wells, including an expansion of our presence in the Utica shale area, (c) completion of construction of the initial cells of our oilfield waste landfill in the Bakken shale area and (d) progress payments for a thermal desorption system to expand our solids treatment capabilities, also in the Bakken shale area. A significant portion of our transportation-related capital requirements are financed through capital leases, which are not included in the capital expenditures figures cited previously. Such equipment additions under capital leases totaled approximately $5.8 million during 2013 and $20.8 million in 2012, as the Company significantly expanded its fleet during 2012. We continue to focus on improving the utilization of our existing assets and optimizing the allocation of resources in the various shale areas in which we operate. Our capital expenditure program is subject to market conditions, including customer activity levels, commodity prices, industry capacity and specific customer needs. We may also incur additional capital expenditures for acquisitions. Our planned capital expenditures for 2014, as well as any acquisitions we choose to pursue, will likely be financed through a combination of cash on hand, cash flow from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and capital leases, and, in the case of acquisitions, issuances of equity. We may also issue additional debt securities to support growth initiatives. Future cash flows from operations are subject to a number of risks and variables, such as the level of drilling activity and oil and natural gas production of our customers, prices of natural gas and oil, and the other risk factors discussed herein. Our ability to obtain capital from other sources, such as the capital markets, is dependent upon many of those same factors as well as the orderly functioning of credit and capital markets. To the extent we fail to have adequate funds, we could be required to reduce our capital spending, or pursue other funding alternatives, which in turn could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increases in costs relating to our large fleet of trucks, including driver compensation or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers as well as increases in fuel costs, could adversely affect our profitability. We employed approximately 1,900 truck drivers as of December 31, 2013. Maintaining a staff of qualified truck drivers is critical to the success of our operations. We have in the past experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers in some of the markets in which we operate, which difficulty is due in part to our high standards for retention of drivers. In addition, due in part to current economic conditions, including the cost of fuel, insurance, and tractors and the U.S. Department of Transportation’s regulatory requirements, the available pool of qualified truck drivers has been declining. A shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other companies may create difficulties in some regions and may require us to pay more to attract and retain qualified drivers. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified drivers, we could have difficulty meeting customer demands, any of which could materially and adversely affect our growth and profitability. The compensation we offer our drivers is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to increase driver compensation and/or modify the benefits provided to our employees in future periods. We and other companies in the oil and gas industry suffer from a high turnover rate of drivers. The high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified drivers, we could be forced to, among other things, adjust our compensation packages, increase the number of our trucks without drivers, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting customer demands, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Additionally, in anticipation of or in response to geographical and market-related fluctuations in the demand for our services, we strategically relocate our equipment and personnel from one area to another, which results in operating inefficiencies, increased labor, fuel and other operating costs and could adversely affect our growth and profitability. As a result, our driver and employee training and orientation costs could be negatively impacted. We also utilize the services of independent contractor truck drivers to supplement our trucking capacity in the Bakken and Marcellus Shale areas on an as-needed basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into these types of arrangements on favorable terms, or that there will be sufficient qualified independent contractors available to meet our needs, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Increases in oil, natural gas and diesel prices have a significant impact on our operating expenses. The price and supply of oil and fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil, natural gas and LNG, actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or “OPEC,” and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. In addition, the supply of critical infrastructure assets, in particular employee housing, in the Bakken Shale area has not kept pace with the rapid growth in the region caused by the boom in the energy and environmental services industry. As a result, there is a shortage of fixed housing in the region, making it difficult for energy services operators and other businesses to attract quality, long-term personnel. Through an entity he controls, but which is separate from the Company, Mr. Johnsrud owns fixed-housing rental units in the Bakken Shale area. However there is no formal arrangement with Mr. Johnsrud to ensure that our employees will be able to rent this housing. There can be no assurance that there will be sufficient housing available for all of our employees in the Bakken Shale area, which could adversely affect our ability to provide services and our operating results. We depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers or the loss of any contracted volumes could result in a decline in our business. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Our three largest customers represented 14%, 14% and 11%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 and in total equaled 31% of the Company’s consolidated accounts receivable at December 31, 2013. The loss of all, or even a portion of, the revenues from these customers, as a result of competition, market conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. For example, our 2013 results of operations were adversely affected by conditions which reduced drilling activities by key customers. The fees charged to customers under our agreements with them may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs and the agreements may be suspended in some circumstances, which would affect our profitability. Under our agreements with our customers, we may be unable to increase the fees that we charge our customers at a rate sufficient to offset any increases in our costs. Additionally, some customers’ obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events. Force majeure events may include (but are not limited to) events such as revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities of our customers. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs or if any customer suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in competitive markets, and there can be no certainty that we will maintain our current customers or attract new customers or that our operating margins will not be impacted by competition. The industries in which our business operates are highly competitive. We compete with numerous local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources. Competition could intensify in the future. Furthermore, numerous well-established companies are focusing significant resources on providing similar services to those that we provide that will compete with our services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with these other companies or that competitive pressures, including possible downward pressure on the prices we charge for our products and services, will not arise. In the event that we cannot effectively compete on a continuing basis, or competitive pressures arise, such inability to compete or competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Our business depends on spending by the oil and natural gas industry in the United States, and this spending and our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. Declines in these expenditures could result in project modification, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts owed to us. Customers’ expectations for lower market prices for oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may also cause our customers to curtail spending, thereby reducing demand for our services. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: • the domestic and worldwide price and supply of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil, including the natural gas inventories and oil reserves of the United States; • changes in the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • weather conditions; • the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities and processing facilities; • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including by commodity price speculators and others; • the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; and • overall domestic and global economic and market conditions. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling activity by some of our customers or in some of the regions in which we operate. For example, natural gas spot prices fell significantly beginning in 2011 and the number of active drilling rigs operating in the Haynesville, Barnett and Marcellus Shale areas has declined with many of these rigs moving to other oil- and liquids-rich shale areas such as the Utica, Eagle Ford, Bakken and Permian Basin. This transition in exploration and production activity has caused and may continue to cause a decline in the demand for our services in affected regions where we operate and has adversely affected and may continue to affect the price of our services and the financial results of our operations. In addition, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas also may have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, due to reduced fracking activity and reduced produced water from existing producing wells to the extent existing production is not replaced and the number of producing wells for us to service declines. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause E&P companies and other oil and natural gas producers to reduce their capital budgets. Any such cuts in spending could curtail drilling programs as well as discretionary spending on well services, which could adversely affect the demand for our services, the rates we can charge and our utilization. Any of these conditions or events could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Any interruption in our services due to pipeline ruptures or spills or necessary maintenance could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand. Our fixed water transport pipelines are susceptible to ruptures and spills, particularly during start up and initial operation, and require ongoing inspection and maintenance. For example, in 2010 and 2011, we had breaks 20 Table of Contents in our 50-mile underground pipeline network in the Haynesville Shale area that resulted in delays in transporting our customers’ water and resulted in significant repair and remediation costs. We may experience further difficulties in maintaining the operation of our pipelines, which may cause downtime and delays. We also may be required to periodically shut down all or part of our pipeline for regulatory compliance and inspection purposes. Any interruption in our services due to pipeline breakdowns or necessary maintenance, inspection or regulatory compliance could reduce sales revenues and earnings and result in remediation costs. Transportation interruptions at our pipelines, even if only temporary, could severely harm our business and reputation. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may not be fully covered under our insurance policies. Our operations are subject to operational hazards, including accidents or equipment issues that can cause pollution and other damage to the environment. For example, produced water from our pipelines has leaked into private property on several occasions. As required pursuant to applicable law, we remediated the environmental impact, including related to site investigation and soil, groundwater and surface water cleanup. In addition, hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, pollution and other damage to the environment, fires and hydrocarbon spills, may delay or halt operations at extraction sites which we service. These conditions can cause: • personal injury or loss of life; • liabilities from pipeline breaks and accidents by our fleet of trucks and other equipment; • damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment; and • the suspension of operations. The occurrence of a significant event or a series of events that together are significant, or adverse claims in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that are not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. We maintain insurance coverage that we believe to be customary in the industry against these hazards. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. In addition, insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, the coverage provided by such insurance may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could make such insurance prohibitively expensive. It is likely that, in our insurance renewals, our premiums and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or considerably more expensive than it has been in the recent past. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits, and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. Improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies or fracking methodologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies (such as wind, solar, geothermal, fuel cells and biofuels) that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, technological changes could decrease the quantities of water required for fracking operations or otherwise affect demand for our services. 21 Table of Contents Seasonal weather conditions and natural disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and harm our business. Areas in which we operate are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the winter and spring. During periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, our customers may curtail their operations or we may be unable to move our trucks between locations or provide other services, thereby reducing demand for, or our ability to provide services and generate revenues. For example, many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our customers’ jobsites in the spring due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws, limiting our access and our ability to provide service in these areas. In 2013 and the first quarter of 2014, inclement weather negatively impacted our operations in Pennsylvania and North Dakota . In September 2011 and October 2012, portions of Pennsylvania and other areas in the eastern United States had record rainfall and flooding. In February 2011, portions of Texas had record snowfalls. During those periods, we and our customers had to significantly reduce or halt operations, resulting in a loss of revenue. In addition, the regions in which we operate have in the past been, and may in the future be, affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, windstorms, floods and tornadoes. In certain areas, our business may be dependent on our customers’ ability to access sufficient water supplies to support their hydraulic fracturing operations. To the extent severe drought conditions or other factors prevent our customers from accessing adequate water supplies, our business could be negatively impacted. Future natural disasters or inclement weather conditions could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business, or our customers’ business, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating margins and profitability may be negatively impacted by changes in fuel and energy costs, in part due to the fixed cost structure of our business. Our business is dependent on availability of fuel for operating our fleet of trucks. Changes and volatility in the price of crude can adversely impact the prices for these products and therefore affect our operating results. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, and environmental concerns. Furthermore, our facilities, fleet and personnel subject us to fixed costs, which make our margins and earnings sensitive to changes in revenues. In periods of declining demand, our fixed cost structure may limit our ability to cut costs, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage to firms with lower cost structures, or may result in reduced operating margins and/or operating losses. Our financial and operating performance may be affected by the inability to renew landfill operating permits, obtain new landfills and expand existing ones. We currently own one landfill and our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives may depend, in part, on our ability to acquire, lease, or renew landfill operating permits, expand existing landfills and develop new landfill sites. It has become increasingly difficult and expensive to obtain required permits and approvals to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills. Operating permits for landfills in states where we operate must generally be renewed every five to ten years, although some permits are required to be renewed more frequently. These operating permits often must be renewed several times during the permitted life of a landfill. The permit and approval process is often time consuming, requires numerous hearings and compliance with zoning, environmental and other requirements, is frequently challenged by special interest and other groups, and may result in the denial of a permit or renewal, the award of a permit or renewal for a shorter duration than we believed was otherwise required by law, or burdensome terms and conditions being imposed on our operations. We may not be able to obtain new landfill sites or expand the permitted capacity of our landfills when necessary. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards in the future may be subject to substantial limitations. We believe that our ability to use our U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes in future years may be limited. Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383 provide annual limitations with 22 Table of Contents respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its net operating loss (as well as certain built-in losses) and tax credit carryforwards, respectively (“Tax Attributes”), against future U.S. taxable income, if the corporation experiences an “ownership change.” In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. The company determined that an ownership change occurred during 2012, for purposes of the rules described above. Moreover, any future transaction or transactions and the timing of such transaction or transactions could trigger additional ownership changes under Section 382. As a result of the ownership change, utilization of our Tax Attributes will be subject to an overall annual limitation determined in part by multiplying the total adjusted aggregate market value of our common stock immediately preceding the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate, possibly subject to increase based on the built-in gain, if any, in our assets at the time of the ownership change. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years. While we do not expect the existing Section 382 limitation to result in federal Tax Attributes expiring unused, future U.S. taxable income may not be fully offset by existing Tax Attributes in a given year if such income exceeds our annual limitation. We are self-insured against many potential liabilities, and our reserves may not be sufficient to cover future claims. We maintain high deductible or self-insured retention insurance policies for certain exposures including automobile, workers’ compensation and employee group health insurance. We carry policies for certain types of claims to provide excess coverage beyond the underlying policies and per incident deductibles or self-insured retentions. Because many claims against us do not exceed the deductibles under our insurance policies, we are effectively self-insured for a substantial portion of our claims. Our insurance accruals are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. The insurance accruals are influenced by our past claims experience factors, which have a limited history, and by published industry development factors. The estimates inherent in these accruals are determined using actuarial methods that are widely used and accepted in the insurance industry. If our insurance claims increase or if costs exceed our estimates of insurance liabilities, we could experience a decline in profitability and liquidity, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. We evaluate our insurance accruals, and the underlying assumptions, regularly throughout the year and make adjustments as needed. While we believe that the recorded amounts are reasonable, there can be no assurance that changes to our estimates will not occur due to limitations inherent in the estimation process. Changes in our assumptions and estimates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business/operating margins, revenues and competitive position. 23 Table of Contents A failure in our operational systems, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data. If any of our financial, operational, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems could result in losses that are difficult to detect. We are heavily reliant on technology for communications, financial reporting, treasury management and many other important aspects of our business. Any failure in our operational systems could have a material adverse impact on our business. Third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational failures. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $555.2 million of indebtedness, net of premiums and discounts, outstanding on a consolidated basis, of which approximately $155.9 million was secured, including $136.0 million outstanding under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $19.9 million of capital leases for new trucks acquired in 2012 and 2013 and other vehicle financings. In February 2014, our existing senior secured revolving credit facility was replaced with an asset-backed revolving credit facility, which provides a maximum credit amount of $200.0 million, which can be increased to $225.0 million through an accordion feature. Borrowings under our credit facility effectively rank senior to our unsecured indebtedness, including our $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 9.875% Senior Notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”), to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt. We had approximately $38.8 million of availability (net of approximately $4.4 million in outstanding letters of credit) under our credit facility as of March 3, 2014. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have other important consequences. For example, our level of indebtedness and the terms of our debt agreements may: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations under our other indebtedness and our contractual and commercial commitments and increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase the 2018 Notes tendered to us if there is a change of control, which would constitute a default under the indenture governing the 2018 Notes; • heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or in the general economy and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions; • limit management’s discretion in operating our business; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • constrain our ability to fund increased working capital needs in a rapid growth environment; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate or the general economy. 24 Table of Contents Each of these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and viability. Our ability to make payments with respect to the 2018 Notes and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting us and our industry, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the indenture governing the 2018 Notes and the credit facility documentation contain restrictive covenants that will affect our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Borrowings under our credit facility bear interest at variable rates. If we were to borrow funds and these rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced and the risks related to our substantial indebtedness would intensify. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, any such agreements may not offer complete protection for this risk. Despite existing debt levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with our leverage. Even with our existing debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial amounts of additional debt in the future, some or all of which may be secured. As of March 3, 2014 we had approximately $38.8 million of borrowing availability (net of approximately $4.4 million in outstanding letters of credit) under our credit facility. In addition, the indenture governing the 2018 Notes and the credit facility documentation allow us to issue additional debt, including additional notes, under certain circumstances, which may be guaranteed by our subsidiaries. Although the terms of the credit facility and the indenture governing the 2018 Notes limit our ability to incur additional debt, these terms do not and will not prohibit us from incurring substantial amounts of additional debt for specific purposes or under certain circumstances, some or all of which may be secured. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify and could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service, lease payments and other obligations due to events beyond our control. Our interest expense related to the 2018 Notes, the borrowings under our credit facility, and our other indebtedness was approximately $53.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2013. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations, to make scheduled payments on or refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our future financial performance and our ability to generate cash in the future. Our future financial performance will be affected by a range of economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors that we cannot control, such as general economic, legislative, regulatory and financial conditions in our industry, the economy generally or other risks described in our reports filed with the SEC. A significant reduction in operating cash flows resulting from changes in economic, legislative or regulatory conditions, increased competition or other events beyond our control could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, seeking additional capital, or any combination of the foregoing. If we raise additional debt, it would increase our interest expense, leverage and our operating and financial costs. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to make required payments on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Reducing or delaying capital expenditures or selling assets could delay future cash flows. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. 25 Table of Contents If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable. This would likely in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between our applicable debt agreements. Under these circumstances, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings or they could prevent us from making payments on the 2018 Notes or our other indebtedness. In addition, the lenders under our credit facility or other secured indebtedness could seek to foreclose on our assets that are their collateral. If the amounts outstanding under our indebtedness were to be accelerated, or were the subject of foreclosure actions, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Our credit facility and the indenture governing the 2018 Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. The credit facility and the indenture governing the 2018 Notes contain covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to take various actions, such as: • transferring or selling assets; • paying dividends or distributions, buying subordinated indebtedness or securities, making certain investments or making other restricted payments; • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness or issuing preferred stock; • creating or incurring liens; • incurring dividend or other payment restrictions affecting subsidiary guarantors; • consummating a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all our assets; • entering into transactions with affiliates; • engaging in business other than a business that is the same or similar, reasonably related, complementary or incidental to our business; • making acquisitions; • making capital expenditures; • entering into sale and leaseback transactions; and • prepaying, redeeming or repurchasing debt prior to stated maturities. In addition, our credit facility requires, and any future credit facilities will likely require, us to comply with specified financial ratios. A breach of any of the foregoing covenants under the indenture governing the Notes or the credit facility, as applicable, could result in a default. In addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. The maximum amount we can borrow under our credit facility is subject to contractual and borrowing base limitations which could significantly and negatively impact our future access to capital required to operate our business. Borrowing base limitations are based upon eligible accounts receivable and equipment. If the value of our accounts receivable or equipment decreases for any reason, or if some portion of our accounts receivable or equipment is deemed ineligible under the terms of our credit facility documentation, the amount we can borrow under the credit facility would be reduced. These limitations could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, the administrative agent for our credit facility has the periodic right to perform an appraisal of the assets comprising our borrowing base. If an appraisal results in a reduction of the borrowing base, then a portion of the outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility could become 26 Table of Contents immediately due and payable. Any such repayment obligation could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by such restrictive covenants. These restrictions may also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions, execute our business strategy, effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted or engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. In the future, we may also incur debt obligations that might subject us to additional and different restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to the indenture governing the 2018 Notes, the credit facility or such other debt obligations if for any reason we are unable to comply with our obligations thereunder or that we will be able to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, or at all, should we seek to do so. The covenants described above are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. Our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will satisfy those requirements. A breach of any of these provisions could result in a default under such indenture, credit facility or other debt obligation, or any future credit facilities we may enter into, which could allow all amounts outstanding thereunder to be declared immediately due and payable, subject to the terms and conditions of the documents governing such indebtedness. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our secured lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. This would likely in turn trigger cross-acceleration and cross-default rights under any other credit facilities and indentures. If the amounts outstanding under the 2018 Notes or any other indebtedness outstanding at such time were to be accelerated or were the subject of foreclosure actions, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Our borrowings under our credit facility expose us to interest rate risk. Our earnings are exposed to interest rate risk associated with borrowings under our credit facility. Our credit facility carries a floating interest rate; therefore, as interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to make acquisitions may be adversely impacted by our outstanding indebtedness and by the price of our stock. Our ability to make future business acquisitions, particularly those that would be financed solely or in part through cash from operations, will be curtailed due to our obligations to make payments of principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness. We may not have sufficient capital resources, now or in the future, and may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital resources on terms satisfactory to us, if at all, in order to meet our capital requirements for such acquisitions. In addition, the terms of our indebtedness include covenants that directly restrict, or have the effect of restricting, our ability to make certain acquisitions while this indebtedness remains outstanding. To the extent that the amount of our outstanding indebtedness has a negative impact on our stock price, using our common stock as consideration will be less attractive for potential acquisition candidates. The future trading price of our common stock could limit our willingness to use our equity as consideration and the willingness of sellers to accept our shares and as a result could limit the size and scope of our acquisition program. If we are unable to pursue strategic acquisitions that would enhance our business or operations, the potential growth of our business and revenues may be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the future and stockholders may be adversely affected by the issuance of those shares. We may raise additional capital by issuing shares of common stock, which will increase the number of common shares outstanding and may result in dilution in the equity interest of our current stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC which allows us to issue up to $400.0 million in debt, equity and hybrid securities. As of December 31, 2013, we had issued 1.8 million shares of common stock at total price of $80.1 million, under this registration statement and could issue up to an additional $319.9 million of debt, equity or hybrid securities. In addition, we have issued shares of our common stock pursuant to private placement exemptions from Securities Act registration requirements, including 9.5 million shares issued in connection with the Power Fuels merger, and may do so in connection with acquisitions, the settlement of litigation and other strategic transactions in the future. The issuance, and the resale or potential resale, of shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and could be dilutive to our stockholders depending on the performance of the acquired business and other factors. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our securities. The stock markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • inaccurate or negative comments about us on social networking websites or other media channels; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements; • changes in the price of oil and natural gas; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and • additions or departures of key personnel. The trading price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange, or “NYSE,” since our initial public offering has ranged from a high of $107.40 on September 3, 2008 to a low of $13.10 on November 11, 2013. The last reported price of our common stock on the NYSE on March 3, 2014 was $16.34 per share. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock, and restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements may prohibit us from paying dividends now or in the future. While we may declare dividends at some point in the future, subject to compliance with such restrictions and covenants, we cannot assure you that you will ever receive cash dividends as a result of ownership of our common stock and any gains from investment in our common stock may only come from increases in our stock prices, if any. 28 Table of Contents We are subject to anti-takeover effects of certain charter and bylaw provisions and Delaware law, as well as of our substantial insider ownership. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended and restated, and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management and board of directors. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • establishing a classified board of directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year; • providing our board of directors the ability to set the number of directors and to fill vacancies on the board of directors occurring between stockholder meetings; • providing that directors may only be removed only for “cause” and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority in voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock; and • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years following the date the beneficial owner acquired at least 15% of our stock, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures, as well as the significant amount of common stock beneficially owned by our Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman, Mr. Johnsrud, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. Risks Related to Environmental and Other Governmental Regulation We are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety, transportation, and protection of natural resources and the environment. Under these laws and regulations, we may become liable for significant penalties, damages or costs of remediation. Any changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Our operations, and those of our customers, are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety, transportation and protection of natural resources and the environment and worker safety, including those relating to waste management and transportation and disposal of produced water and other materials. For example, we are subject to environmental regulation relating to disposal into injection wells, which can pose some risks of environmental liability, including leakage from the wells to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Liability under these laws and regulations could result in cancellation of well operations, fines and penalties, expenditures for remediation, and liability for property damage and personal injuries. Our business involves the use, handling, storage, and contracting for recycling or disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Accordingly, we are subject to regulation by federal, state, and local authorities establishing investigation and health and environmental quality standards, and liability related thereto, and providing penalties for violations of those standards. We also are subject to laws, ordinances, and regulations governing investigation 29 Table of Contents and remediation of contamination at facilities we operate or to which we send hazardous or toxic substances or wastes for treatment, recycling, or disposal. In particular, CERCLA imposes joint, strict, and several liability on owners or operators of facilities at, from, or to which a release of hazardous substances has occurred; parties that generated hazardous substances that were released at such facilities; and parties that transported or arranged for the transportation of hazardous substances to such facilities. A majority of states have adopted statutes comparable to and, in some cases, more stringent than CERCLA. If we were to be found to be a responsible party under CERCLA or a similar state statute, we could be held liable for all investigative and remedial costs associated with addressing such contamination. In addition, claims alleging personal injury or property damage may be brought against us as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the assessment of significant administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, and orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict and/or joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. For example, if a landfill or disposal operator mismanages our wastes in a way that creates an environmental hazard, we and all others who sent materials could become liable for cleanup costs, fines and other expenses many years after the disposal or recycling was completed. Future events, such as the discovery of currently unknown matters, spills caused by future pipeline ruptures, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, may give rise to additional expenditures or liabilities, which could impair our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements are changing frequently and are subject to interpretation. New laws, regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, together with uncertainty regarding adequate testing and sampling procedures, new pollution control technology and cost benefit analysis based on market conditions are all factors that may increase our future capital expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Accordingly, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of future compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing, including regulation of the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal, could result in reduction in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells or minimize water use or disposal, which could adversely impact the demand for our services. Demand for our services depends, in large part, on the level of exploration and production of oil and gas and the oil and gas industry’s willingness to purchase our services. Most of our customer base uses hydraulic fracturing to drill new oil and gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing is a process that is used to release hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from certain geological formations. The process involves the injection of water (typically mixed with significant quantities of sand and small quantities of chemical additives) under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate movement of hydrocarbons through the formation. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and has been exempt (except when the fracturing fluids or propping agents contain diesel fuels) since 2005 from United States federal regulation pursuant to the SDWA. The EPA is conducting a comprehensive study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The results of the EPA study and House investigation could lead to restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. On February 11, 2014, the EPA released revised underground injection control (UIC) program permitting guidance for wells that use diesel fuels during hydraulic fracturing activities. EPA developed the guidance to clarify how companies can comply with a law passed by Congress in 2005, which exempted hydraulic fracturing operations from the requirement to obtain a UIC permit, except in cases where diesel fuel is used as a fracturing fluid. In a February 5, 2014 memorandum, EPA’s Inspector General (IG) announced plans to evaluate how EPA and the states have used their regulatory authority to address potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on water resources. The IG reportedly will “evaluate what regulatory authority is 30 Table of Contents available to the EPA and states, identify potential threats to water resources from hydraulic fracturing, and evaluate the EPA’s and states’ responses to them.” In addition, the EPA finalized regulations under the CAA in October 2012 regarding certain criteria and hazardous air pollutant emissions from hydraulic fracturing wells and, in October 2011, announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the CWA to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other gas production. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, including, for example, requiring disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process or seeking to repeal the exemption from the SWDA. If adopted, such legislation would add an additional level of regulation and necessary permitting at the federal level and could make it more difficult to complete wells using hydraulic fracturing. Similar laws and regulations with respect to chemical disclosure also exist or are being considered by the United States Department of Interior and in several states, including certain states in which we operate, that could restrict hydraulic fracturing. The Delaware River Basin Commission is also considering regulations which may impact “hydrofracturing” water practices in certain areas of Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey and Delaware. Some local governments have also sought to restrict drilling in certain areas. Future United States federal, state or local laws or regulations could significantly restrict, or increase costs associated with hydraulic fracturing and make it more difficult or costly for producers to conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, which could result in a decline in exploration and production. New laws and regulations, and new enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, could also expressly restrict the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal in hydraulic fracturing and otherwise increase our costs and our customers’ cost of compliance, which could minimize water use and disposal needs even if other limits on drilling and completing new wells were not imposed. Any decline in exploration and production or any restrictions on water use and disposal could result in a decline in demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Delays or restrictions in obtaining permits by our customers for their operations or by us for our operations could impair our business. In most states, our customers are required to obtain permits from one or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities and we may be required to procure permits for construction and operation of our disposal wells and pipelines. Such permits are typically required by state agencies, but can also be required by federal and local governmental agencies. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location where our, or our customers’, activities will be conducted. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions which may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. Delays or restrictions in obtaining saltwater disposal well permits could adversely impact our growth, which is dependent in part on new disposal capacity. Our customers have been affected by moratoriums on the issuance of permits that have been imposed upon drilling and completion activities in certain jurisdictions. For example, in December 2010, the State of New York imposed a moratorium on certain drilling and completion activities. In 2011, the state announced plans to lift the moratorium, however, as of March 2014 the New York moratorium had not been lifted. A similar moratorium has been in place within the Delaware River Basin pending issuance of regulations by the Delaware River Basin Commission. Other states, including Texas, Arkansas, Pennsylvania, Wyoming and Colorado, have enacted laws and regulations applicable to our business activities, including disclosure of information regarding the substances used in hydraulic fracturing. California is presently considering similar requirements. The EPA published a rule on January 9, 2014 requiring oil and gas companies using hydraulic fracturing off the coast of California to disclose the chemicals they discharge into the ocean. Some of the drilling and completion activities of our customers may take place on federal land, requiring leases from the federal government to conduct such drilling and completion activities. In some cases, federal agencies have cancelled oil and natural gas leases on federal lands. Consequently, our operations in certain areas of the country may be interrupted or suspended for varying lengths of time, causing a loss of revenue and potentially having a materially adverse effect on our operations. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents We are subject to the trucking safety regulations, which are likely to be amended, and made stricter, as part of the initiative known as Compliance, Safety, Accountability, or “CSA.” If our current USDOT safety rating of “Satisfactory” is downgraded in connection with this initiative, our business and results of our operations may be adversely affected. As part of the CSA initiative, the FMCSA is continuously revising its safety rating methodology and implementation of the same. These revisions will likely link safety ratings more closely to roadside inspection and driver violation data gathered and analyzed from month to month under the FMCSA’s new Safety Measurement System, or “SMS” and may place increased scrutiny on carriers transporting significant quantities of hazardous material. This linkage could result in greater variability in safety ratings than the current system. Preliminary studies by transportation consulting firms indicate that “Satisfactory” ratings (or any equivalent under a new SMS-based system) may become more difficult to achieve and maintain under such a system. If our operations lose their current “Satisfactory” rating, which is the highest and best rating under this initiative, we may lose some of our customer contracts that require such a rating, adversely affecting our business prospects and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 