risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. ii PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS With respect to this discussion, the terms, “we,” “us,” “our” or “the Company” refer to NIVS IntelliMedia Technology Group, Inc., and our 100%-owned subsidiary NIVS Holding Company Limited, a British Virgin Islands corporation (“NIVS BVI”) and its subsidiaries, including NIVS (Huizhou) Audio & Video Tech. Co., Ltd., a company organized under the laws of the People’s Republic of China (“NIVS PRC”), which is 97.5% owned by NIVS BVI and 2.5% owned by Tianfu Li, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Overview We, through NIVS PRC, are engaged in the design, manufacture, sales and marketing of audio and video consumer products. Our products include digital audio systems, televisions, digital video broadcasting (“DVB”) set-top boxes, DVD players, as well as peripheral and accessory products such as remote controls, headphone sets, and portable entertainment devices (MP3/MP4 players). We have invested substantial resources in the research and development of our intelligent audio and video consumer products, most of which utilize our Chinese speech interactive technology to permit users to control our products through their spoken commands. Our products are distributed worldwide, including markets in Europe, Southeast Asia, and North America. Industry We compete within certain categories in the wholesale consumer electronics industry. Our current focus is on home audio and video products, and the two primary categories in which we currently compete are standard audio and video equipment (including DVD players and DVB set-top boxes) and intelligent audio and video equipment (traditional video and audio products combined with speech-based interface). Standard audio and video equipment Our products that compete in the standard audio and video equipment category include mid and high-end home audio products, including premium home theater systems, speakers, shelf-stereo systems, televisions, DVD players, DVB set-top boxes, portable digital players, and related products. Growth of this market segment has been driven primarily due to the increase in consumer demand for flat screen digital televisions and for audio and visual products that complement flat screen televisions to create a home theater experience. Price pressure remains a key challenge for manufacturers of consumer electronics as the retail industry continues to evolve, with the major emerging markets like China, Russia, and India maintaining their strong growth, and retailers driving their expansion into new geographies as well as into the online sector. Intelligent audio and video equipment The market for intelligent audio and video products consists of traditional video and audio products combined with speech-based interface. Our products that compete in the intelligent audio and video equipment category are based on the Chinese language and include many of the types of products that we offer in our line of standard audio and video products, except these products are equipped with our speech interactive technology. The market for intelligent audio and video products is less developed than the market for standard audio and video equipment, and the market for products in this market based on Chinese language is less developed than products based on Western languages. The intelligent audio and video electronics market has experienced growth in part due to consumer demand for simple, convenient interfaces. Commensurate with the increase in the scope and complexity of functions in consumer electronic products has been the unforeseen consequence that many audio/visual products have become cumbersome and difficult to use. Products now commonly utilize complex menu structures and difficult to navigate user interfaces that can limit a user’s ability to fully enjoy the functionality and convenience offered by these products. As compared to standard equipment, intelligent audio and video products powered by voice commands possess unique capabilities, superior convenience, and an increased ease-of-use. Also, improvements in speech-based technologies have enabled companies to implement these features in a broader array of products. 1 China China is world’s second largest electronic product consumer, after only the United States. China’s market for home consumer electronics has been growing, due in part to the country’s rapid economic growth. Economic growth in China has led to greater levels of personal disposable income and increased spending among China’s expanding middle-class consumer base. Notwithstanding China’s economic growth, with a population of 1.3 billion people, China’s economic output and consumption rates are still small on a per capita basis compared to developed countries. As China’s economy develops, we believe that disposable income and consumer spending levels will continue to become closer to that of developed countries like the United States. China’s market share of manufacture of consumer electronic devices is expected to increase. China has a number of benefits in the manufacture of home consumer electronics, which are expected to drive this growth: Low costs. China continues to have a relatively low cost of labor as well as easy access to raw materials and land. Proximity to electronics supply chain. Electronics manufacturing in general continues to shift to China, giving China-based manufacturers a further cost and cycle time advantage. Proximity to end-markets. China has focused in recent years on building its research, development and engineering skill base in all aspects of higher end manufacturing. The market for speech-controlled consumer products for Western languages is more developed than the market for speech-controlled consumer products for Chinese languages. Compared with Western languages, there are extra challenges related to large vocabulary and continuous speech recognition systems for the Chinese language. These challenges are primarily due to the more complicated characteristics of Chinese language as compared to Western languages. We expect to see the market for Chinese speech-controlled products grow as technologies improve. Competitive Strengths We believe the following strengths contribute to our competitive advantages and differentiate us from our competitors: Market position Since the inception of NIVS PRC, we have focused on the research, development and manufacture of standard and intelligent audio and video products. We have developed significant expertise in the key technologies and large-scale manufacturing that enables us to improve the quality of our products, reduce costs, and keep pace with current standards of the rapidly evolving consumer electronics industry. We are able to bring to the market well-differentiated products that perform well against competitive offerings based on price, style, and brand recognition. Our specific Chinese-speech interaction technology has broad application to consumer products and has allowed us to distinguish our products from those of our competitors. Design and manufacturing capabilities We employ a rigorous and systematic approach to product design and manufacturing. We employ a senior design team with members educated by top colleges in China, with an average of 13 to 15 years of experience. Our design team develops and tracks new concepts and ideas from a variety of sources, including direct customer feedback, trade shows, and industry conferences. We have, through NIVS PRC, a 2.7 million square foot factory, which includes a large-scale, 1.1 million square-foot production area, and more than 1,400 full-time employees, including approximately 1,000 employees in production. Our modernized production lines include automated processing equipment and procedures that we can rapidly modify to accommodate new customer requests, designs and specifications. Our use of manual labor during the production process benefits from the availability of relatively low-cost, skilled labor in China. NIVS PRC has received several accreditations, including The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001: 2000, ISO 14000, and RoHS certification, attesting to our quality management requirements, manufacturing safety, controls, procedures and environmental performance. 2 Experienced management team Our senior management team has extensive business and industry experience, including an understanding of changing market trends, consumer needs, technologies and our ability to capitalize on the opportunities resulting from these market changes. The founder of NIVS PRC and our principal stockholder and current CEO and Chairman, Tianfu Li, has over 18 years of experience in the consumer electronics industry, which has been a key factor in establishing long-lasting and valuable business relationships. Other members of our senior management team also have significant experience with respect to key aspects of our operations, including research and development, product design, manufacturing, and sales and marketing. Well-established distribution channels We sell our products through a well-established network of distributors and resellers allowing us to penetrate customer markets worldwide. Our products are sold domestically in China at over 8,000 points of sale and internationally through numerous channels, including independent specialty retailers, international and regional chains, mass merchants, and distributors. We have also built strong relationships with many large national and regional electronics retailers, and we have well-established relationships with thousands of independent retailers. Customer service expertise We work closely with our major customers in order to ensure high levels of customer satisfaction. We constantly evaluate and identify our strongest customers in each distribution channel and focus our sales efforts towards the largest and fastest growing distributors and resellers. To provide superior service and foster customer trust and loyalty, we offer flexible delivery methods and product feedback opportunities to our customers. For Original Equipment Manufacturer, or OEM, customers, we provide a complete range of services, allowing us to take customer products from initial design through production to testing, distribution and after market support. In addition, our sales representatives and marketing personnel undergo extensive training, providing them with the skills necessary to answer product and service-related questions, proactively educate potential customers about our products, and promptly resolve customer inquiries. Brand awareness Our self-branded audio and visual products, marketed under the brand-name NIVS, have become a recognized brand name in China, which we expect will assist us in growing our business over the course of the next few years. Our audio products have a solid reputation and established a brand name in the PRC, particularly in Guangdong. Strategy Our goal is to become a global leader in the development and manufacture of standard and intelligent audio and video consumer electronics. We intend to achieve this goal by implementing the following strategies: Expand offering of speech-controlled products We plan to leverage our expertise in product design and development, our intellectual property platform, and our diverse distribution network by continuing to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, particularly audio and video consumer products that utilize our Chinese speech-controlled technology. We plan to strengthen the performance of our Chinese speech technology to provide users with an easy-to-use, speech-enabled interaction with consumer audio/visual products. Our goal is to continue to enhance the functionality of our core speech interactive technology by adding new features and making our products simpler to use. We intend to invest additional resources in our research and development and speech-controlled technology, applications and intellectual property to promote innovation and maintain customer preference for our products. Build partnerships with new and existing clients We intend to strengthen relationships with our existing clients and explore opportunities for product expansion with new and existing customers. Our strategy is to establish partnerships with our current clients whereby we develop and manufacture new products based on client needs. For example, Korea HYUNDAI named NIVS PRC as its sole brand promoter for its digital MP3/MP4 players and television products in China. As sole brand promoter, NIVS PRC provides to the public a uniform product image for HYUNDAI. NIVS PRC attempts to strengthen the HYUNDAI brand as a high-end, quality brand. 3 We also seek to leverage our Chinese-speech interactive technology to develop relationships and strategic alliances with third-party developers, vendors, and manufacturers of mobile phones, entertainment devices, and GPS navigation devices for use in their products. We believe OEMs of consumer electronics devices and products, wireless operators, system integrators and value-added resellers (“VARs”) can simplify the use and increase the functionality of their electronic products and services by integrating our speech interactivity technologies, resulting in broader market opportunities and significant competitive advantages. For example, we believe that our technology can provide users a more convenient way to enter SMS messages, mobile instant messages, and mobile email into mobile wireless devices, significantly faster than with the traditional keypad. We believe our technology can also be used in navigation systems to enable voice-activated dialing, voice destination entry, and vehicle command and control for in-vehicle entertainment systems. In May 2006, we established an arrangement with a U.S.-based company producing a multimedia processing chip that intends to use our speech interaction software for its mobile phone and intelligent interactive entertainment product. Expand global presence A growing percentage of our products are exported to countries outside of China, primarily to Europe, Southeast Asia, and North America. We intend to further expand our international resources to better serve our global customers and business associates and to leverage opportunities in markets such as Hong Kong, the Middle East, India, Great Britain, Germany, the United States, and Argentina. We hope to continue to add regional sales representatives and distributors in different geographic regions to better address demand for our products. Expand sales network and distribution channels We intend to expand our sales network in China and develop relationships with a broader set of wholesalers, distributors and resellers, all in order to expand the market availability of our products in China. We feel the Chinese markets are underserved and there exists vast opportunities to expand market presence. We hope that these relationships will allow us to diversify our customer base and significantly increase the availability and exposure of our products. Augment marketing and promotion efforts to increase brand awareness We continue to devote our efforts towards brand development and utilize marketing concepts in an attempt to strengthen the marketability of our products. During the past several years, we have carried out a brand development strategy based on product innovation, quality, and design excellence. We have also participated and intend to continue to participate in various exhibitions and similar promotional events to promote our products and brand, including Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in the United States, the IFA Electronics Fair, and the Hong Kong Electronics Fair. Products The two primary lines of home audio and video products that we offer are standard audio and video equipment (including DVD players and DVB set-top boxes) and intelligent audio and video equipment. We currently offer approximately 250 different standard audio and video products and approximately 30 intelligent audio and video products. We generate a majority of our revenues from the sale of standard audio equipment, followed by sales of DVB boxes, DVD players, and televisions. A growing portion of our revenues is generated from our sales of speech-controlled acoustics and televisions and we hope to continue to increase this trend going forward. Net sales for each of our product categories as a percentage of net sales are set forth below: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Standard Audio and Video Equipment 80 % 92 % 99 % Intelligent Audio and Video Equipment 13 % 5.7 % - % Other Audio and Video Equipment 7 % 2 % 1 % Our line of standard audio and video equipment consists of mid- and high-end products, including: · packaged home theater systems, 4 · a wide range of tower, stand-alone and on-wall speaker systems, · powered subwoofers used in a complete range of products for traditional stereo and home theater applications, · smaller speakers designed for specific home theater and stereo applications, · personal shelf-stereo systems, · LCD televisions in sizes ranging from 17 to 52 inches, · DVD players, including portable DVD players, DVD recorders and combination DVD/audio players, · DVB set-top boxes, DVB satellite receivers, · hi-fi multi-media speakers, · portable digital players (MP3/MP4 players), and · related peripheral and accessory products. Our speech-controlled products are designed to improve people’s interaction with our products, making their experience more enjoyable, convenient, and safe and satisfying. Our intelligent video and audio products utilize our Chinese-speech interactive technology to receive, recognize, and respond to spoken commands, permitting users to activate and control products solely through spoken-word. We believe our technology’s recognition and command functionality is highly accurate, particularly at home where there is less noise and interference. Our speech interactive technology is speaker independent, meaning that no voice training is involved. We believe our speech-controlled audio systems, speech-controlled television sets, and intelligent set-top boxes provide users with unique capabilities, superior convenience, and ease of use. Our line of intelligent audio and video products consist of the types of our standard products with our integrated speech-controlled interface technology, including speech-controlled home theater systems, televisions, DVD players, set-top boxes, and shelf stereo systems. Our intelligent consumer products can be controlled by users’ oral commands to control all functions, including power, channel selection, volume control, and other setting controls. We also offer speech-controlled professional stage acoustics for use in gymnasiums, and other plazas and performance venues. To a lesser extent, we also manufacture and distribute other peripheral and accessory consumer electronic products, such as remote controls, headphones, mobile phones, and lighting solutions. We have a universal speech-activated remote controller and module that works with most televisions, set-top box products, DVD players, and other audio/visual products. Supply of Raw Materials The cost of the raw materials used to produce our products is a key factor in the pricing of our products. We currently work with over 100 supply manufacturers in attempt to establish a rapid and stable supply of high quality raw materials. Raw materials used in the manufacture of our products include integrated circuits, plastic-rubber materials, hardware materials, LCD/TFT/plasma display screens, LED, capacitors, resistors, switches, electrical outlets, wood board materials, packaging materials, and other electrical components. We attempt to purchase materials in volume which allows us the ability to negotiate better pricing with our suppliers. Our purchasing department locates eligible suppliers of raw materials and strives to use only those suppliers who have previously demonstrated quality control and reliability. We procure materials to meet forecasted customer requirements. Special products and large orders are quoted for delivery after receipt of orders at specific lead times. We maintain minimum levels of finished goods based on market demand in addition to inventories of raw materials, work in process, and sub-assemblies and components. We reserve for inventory items determined to be either excess or obsolete. Pricing and availability of raw materials can be volatile, attributable to numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, currency exchange rates, industry cycles, production levels or a supplier’s limited supply. To the extent that we experience cost increases we may seek to pass such cost increases on to our customers, but cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to do so successfully or that our business, results of operations and financial condition would not be adversely affected by increased volatility of the cost and availability of raw materials. 5 Our primary suppliers of raw materials are located in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, United States, and China. Our top three suppliers accounted for an aggregate total of approximately 17%, 18.8%, and 25.9% of our raw material purchases during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Other than these suppliers, no other supplier accounted for more than 10% of our total purchases in these periods. The increase in our use of certain suppliers during fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 is primarily attributable to adjustments in our purchasing strategy. Due to an increasing price of raw materials, and because most of our production material is imported from other countries, we arranged for a fewer number of import companies to act as our import agents to save time and costs. Our shift to a few import companies resulted in our top three suppliers accounting for a higher percentage of our raw material purchases during fiscal 2008. In addition, the sales volume of our televisions and DVB set-top boxes increased significantly in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. Most of the material for these two product categories are new model materials and are imported through our top three suppliers, which increased the total percentage of raw materials purchased through these suppliers. Presently, our relationships with our suppliers are good and we expect that our suppliers will be able to meet the anticipated demand for our products in the future. However, due to our dependence on a few suppliers for certain raw materials, we could experience delays in development and/or the ability to meet our customer demand for new products. In addition, we have a number of longstanding business relationships with certain suppliers, and we believe that alternative suppliers are available. Although we have not been subject to shortages for any of our components, we may be subject to cutbacks and price increases which we may not be able to pass on to our customers in the event that the demand for components generally exceeds the capacity of our suppliers. We believe our manufacturing facility and design center in Huizhou, China, due to its location, provides us with flexibility in our supply chain, to better manage inventories and to reduce delays and long-term costs for our products. Manufacturing The manufacture of audio and video consumer electronics requires coordinated use of machinery and raw materials at various stages of manufacturing. Our manufacturing operations are conducted in Huizhou, Guangdong, in our modern, 2.7 million square-foot factory, which houses a large-scale, 1.1 million square-foot production area. We use automated machinery to process key aspects of the manufacturing process to ensure high uniformity and precision, while leaving the other aspects of the manufacturing process to manual labor. Our production facilities utilize modern machinery such as molding injectors, mounting machinery, cutting machines, sorting devices, soldering modules, wire cutting equipment, and other assembly machinery. We intend to further streamline our production process and continue investing in our manufacturing infrastructure to further increase our manufacturing capacity, helping us to control the per unit cost of our products. The flow of our manufacturing process is illustrated below, with the responsible department footnoted in each step in the process. ______________ 1. Business Department 2. Research and Development Department 3. Quality Control Department 4. Engineering Department 5. Warehouse Storage Department 6. Production Control Department 6 Quality Control We consider quality control an important element of our business practices. We have stringent quality control systems that are implemented by approximately 55 company-trained staff members to ensure quality control over each phase of the production process, from the purchase of raw materials through each step in the manufacturing process. Supported by advanced equipment, we utilize a scientific management system and precision inspection measurement, capable of ensuring our products are of high quality. Our quality control department executes the following functions: · setting internal controls and regulations for semi-finished and finished products; · testing samples of raw materials from suppliers; · implementing sampling systems and sample files; · maintaining quality of equipment and instruments; and · articulating the responsibilities of quality control staff. NIVS PRC has obtained certifications and accreditations that we believe exhibit our ability to efficiently manufacture quality products. NIVS PRC first obtained ISO9001:2000 quality system accreditation in July 2001 and ISO14000 environmental management system accreditation in October 2006. The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) defines the ISO 9000 quality management system as one of international references for quality management requirements in business-to-business dealings. ISO 14000 is an environmental management system in which the organization being accredited has to (i) minimize harmful effects on the environment caused by its activities, and (ii) achieve continual improvement of its environmental performance. In December 2005, NIVS PRC obtained certification for compliance with the Directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, which is commonly referred to as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS. RoHS restricts the use of various hazardous materials in the manufacture of electronic and electrical equipment. Sales and Marketing We have a sales network of more than 8,000 points of sale in China, in addition to distributors throughout more than 60 countries and regions around the world. Our sales network spans across all major provincial-level cities and a majority of municipal and county-level cities in China. Our distribution network includes exclusive provincial and regional distributors, resellers, independent vendors, value-added resellers, and hardware vendors in addition to other marketplace points of sales. We have established a standard of sales procedures covering before-sales consultation, preliminary design, final design, mold preparation, sample confirmation, production, product testing, sales, and after-sales services and technical support. We have approximately 300 service stations throughout China, in addition to a 24-hour/7 days-a-week telephone hotline. We have also set up 23 regional service centers in Europe, Southeast Asia, and North America to better serve our international clients. The regional service centers offer updated product information, repair service and technical consultations for customers. Most of our revenues are derived from sales to OEMs, or Original Equipment Manufacturers, followed by sales of our self-branded products. OEMs contract with us to build their products or to obtain services related to product development and prototyping, volume manufacturing or aftermarket support. Our services include engineering, design, materials, management, assembly, testing, distribution, and after-market services. We believe that we are able to provide quality OEM services that meet unique requirements within customer timeframes, unique styling, product simplicity, price targets, and consistent quality with low defect rates. As a result of efficiently managing costs and assets, we believe we are able to offer our customers an outsourcing solution that represents a lower total cost of acquisition than that typically provided by the OEM's own manufacturing operation. OEM sales accounted for 65%, 77%, and 80% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and sales of products with our own brand accounted for 35%, 23%, and 20% of our revenues for the same periods, respectively. 7 In addition, some of our OEM cooperation arrangements are with well-known manufacturers, including Samsung, Hyundai, Haier, and TCL. From February to June 2005, NIVS PRC commenced business relationships with each of Wal-Mart, Carrefour Group, and METRO pursuant to which these large distribution companies agreed to distribute our products. In January 2005, NIVS PRC began a business relationship with Samsung pursuant to which it is the exclusive authorized OEM manufacturer of Samsung’s multi-media speakers in China. The table below shows our revenue categorized by geographic locations, which is based on the geographic areas in which our customers are located. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 China and Hong Kong 77.1 % 58.1 % 45.4 % Europe 3.1 11.9 11.6 North America 1.1 3.3 - Other Asia Countries 16.3 24.0 39.4 South America 2.2 2.6 3.6 Other countries 0.2 - - Total 100 % 100 % 100 % NIVS PRC has received various governmental awards with respect to our brand. Beginning in 2005, NIVS PRC’s brand received the “Most Popular Brand” award in the acoustics industry for three successive years. NIVS PRC also received the “Famous Brand in Guangdong” award in 2007. In June 2003, NIVS PRC was honored by the Science and Technology Bureau of Guangdong Province as a “Private High-tech Enterprise” and “High-tech Enterprise,” which is an honor reserved for private enterprises developing new high-technology. A small number of customers account for a very significant percentage of our revenue. The table below illustrates the number of customers that accounted for 5% or more of our sales for the periods presented. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Number of customers accounting for 5% or more 7 5 4 Percentage of largest customer 12 % 13 % 17 % Total percentage of sales attributable to customers with 5% or more 44 % 38 % 49 % The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect upon our revenue and net income. Research and Development To enhance our product quality, reduce cost, and keep pace with technological advances and evolving market trends, we have established an advanced research and development center. Our research and development center is focused on enhancing our Chinese speech interactive technology by improving the performance of our current products and developing new products, in addition to developing related and alternative technologies. We have made investments in capital and time to develop technology engines, intellectual property and industry expertise in Chinese speech technologies that we believe provide us with a competitive advantage in the markets where we compete. Our technologies are based on complex formulas which require extensive amounts of linguistic data, acoustic models and recognition techniques. We continue to invest in technologies to maintain our market position and to develop new applications and products. We conduct substantially all of our research and development with an in-house staff. After establishing its modernized speech technology lab in 2002, NIVS PRC has been able to more effectively recruit qualified speech technology researchers. We have approximately six senior technology researchers, many holding doctorate degrees, and 15 core researchers. The duties of our core researchers are to improve research and development management and market analysis, in addition to establishing and regulating the large-scale production projects. In addition, our research and development center is currently staffed with over 100 experienced research and development technicians who oversee our techniques department, product development department, material analysis lab, and performance testing lab. These departments work together to research new material and techniques, test product performance, inspect products and to test performance of machines used in the manufacturing process. 8 NIVS PRC has worked with Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, or IACAS, since October 2006 to better understand and develop speech interaction technology. IACAS is an organization that specializes in the research and development of smart robot and speech interactive technology. We have focused our efforts to resolve issues caused by speaker-independent speech, the large number of words, and continuous speech identification. We have and continue to develop key technologies, including combined modeling for intonation and vowel variation, large speech database management, and system searching. We continue to research and develop speech performance engines and databases. The various types of speech interactive engines include multi-language identification engines, compositing engine, and speech evaluation engine. Multi-language identification engines are products that can identify multiple languages. Compositing engines can speak as humans. Speech evaluation engines can make judgments of yes or no. In addition, our intelligent audio and video products require input from a speech database that we have assembled. We have generated numerous databases, including professional speech identification, speech synthesis, speech teaching and speech entertainment databases. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we expended $1,737,323, $373,472, and $417,284, respectively, in research and development. In addition to the advancement of our speech interactive technology, we believe that the future success of our business depends upon our ability to enhance our existing products, to develop compelling new products, to develop cost effective products, to qualify these products with our customers, to effectively introduce these products to existing and new markets on a timely basis, and to commence and sustain volume production to meet customer demands. To avoid product obsolescence, we will continue to monitor technological changes, as well as users' demands for new technologies. Failure to keep pace with future technological changes could adversely affect our revenues and operating results in the future. Although we have attempted to determine the specific needs of the entertainment, mobile, computer, and residential user markets, there can be no assurance that the markets will, in fact, materialize or that our existing and future products designed for these markets will gain market acceptance. Backlog Our backlog of unfilled orders was $1.32 million as of December 31, 2008, compared to $2.43 million at December 31, 2007. We include all purchase orders scheduled for delivery over the next 12 months in backlog. As part of our commitment to customer service, our goal has been to ship products to meet the customers' requested shipment dates. Our backlog is occasionally subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer on short notice with little or no penalty. Because of the uncertainty of order cancellations or rescheduling, we do not believe our backlog as of any particular date is indicative of actual sales for any future period and, therefore, should not be used as a measure of future revenue. Warranties and Return Policy We offer limited warranties for our consumer electronics, comparable to those offered to consumers by our competitors in China. Such warranties typically consist of a 90-day period for our audio products, under which we will pay for labor and parts, or offer a new or similar unit in exchange for a non-performing unit. Our customers may return products to us for a variety of reasons, such as damage to goods in transit, cosmetic imperfections and mechanical failures, if within the warranty period. We offer a one-year guarantee for all of our products. Product Liability and Insurance We do not have product liability insurance. Because of the nature of the products sold by us, we may be periodically subject to product liability claims resulting from personal injuries. We may become involved in various lawsuits incidental to our business. To date, we have not been subject to products liability litigation. Product liability insurance is expensive, restrictive and difficult to obtain. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will have capital sufficient to cover any successful product liability claims made against us in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 9 Competition We face competition from many other consumer electronics manufacturers, most of which have significantly greater name recognition and financial, technical, manufacturing, personnel, marketing, and other resources than we have. The major geographic markets in which we compete are China and Hong Kong, Southeast Asia and North America. The consumer electronics market is subject to rapid technology changes, highly fragmented, and cyclical. The industry is characterized by the short life cycle of products, requiring continuous design and development efforts, which necessitates large capital and time investments. Our competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, price, design, reliability, brand recognition, and quality service and support to our customers. We believe that our standard audio and video consumer products are comparable in quality and performance with competitors in our market category. Many of our competitors in the standard audio and video consumer products market have a stronger competitive position than we do in that they have more technical and research and development resources, greater brand recognition and longer-standing customer relationships. Companies that offer products similar to our standard audio and video consumer products include SAMSUNG Electronics, Bose Corporation, LG Electronics, Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation. We believe that our intelligent audio and video products are comparable in quality and performance with competitors in our market category. Many of our competitors in the intelligent audio and video products market have a stronger competitive position than we do in that they have more technical and research and development resources, greater brand recognition and longer-standing customer relationships and began developing English intelligent speech technology earlier than we did. We believe have a strong competitive position in our domestic market for Chinese-speech interactive technology as we have significant technical and research and development resources on Chinese-speech technology. Companies that offer products similar to our intelligent audio and video products include Nuance Communications, Inc., Fonix Corporation, International Business Machines Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., Haier Electronics Group Co., Ltd., Anhui USTC iFLYTEK Co., Ltd., and Shenzhen SinoVoice Digital Technology Co., Ltd. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our intellectual property rights and to maintain and enhance our competitiveness in the consumer electronics industry. The founder of NIVS PRC and our principal shareholder and current Chief Executive Officer, Tianfu Li, has legal ownership of the approximately 43 patents in China, in addition to 19 patent applications, that we use in our business operations. These patents include design, utility, and invention patents that relate to our products. In July 2008, NIVS PRC entered into an assignment and transfer agreement with Mr. Li for the transfer and assignment of these patents and patent applications to NIVS PRC, in addition to other intellectual property related to our business operations. We and Mr. Li intend to file appropriate transfer certificates with the Bureau of Intellectual Property in the PRC, which, after approved by the Bureau, would result in the legal transfer of the patents and patent applications to us. We also rely on unpatented technologies to protect the proprietary nature of our product and manufacturing processes. We require that our management team and key employees enter into confidentiality agreements that require the employees to assign the rights to any inventions developed by them during the course of their employment with us. All of the confidentiality agreements include non-competition and non-solicitation provisions that remain effective during the course of employment and for periods following termination of employment, which vary depending on position and location of the employee. We have four registered trademarks in China, with expiration dates between April 2011 and November 2016, and seven registered trademark applications. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and preserve other intellectual property rights covering the design and operation of our products. We intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions when we deem it commercially appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, and there can be no assurance that patents will be issued for currently pending or future applications or that our existing patents or any new patents issued will be of sufficient scope or strength or provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to, or may initiate, litigation or patent office interference proceedings, which may require significant financial and management resources. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or the advent of litigation arising out of any such intellectual property claims could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 10 Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 1,800 full-time employees, including approximately 1,300 employees in production and approximately 160 employees in sales and marketing. All of our employees are based inside China. Our employees are not represented by any labor union and are not organized under a collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our relationships with our employees are generally good. NIVS PRC is required to contribute a portion of its employees’ total salaries to the Chinese government’s social insurance funds, including pension insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, and job injuries insurance, and maternity insurance, in accordance with relevant regulations. Total contributions to the funds are approximately $217,882, $232,655, and $268,567 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect that the amount of NIVS PRC’s contribution to the government’s social insurance funds will increase in the future as we expand our workforce and operations. We also provide housing facilities for our employees. At present, approximately 80% of our employees live in company-provided housing facilities. Under PRC laws, we may be required to make contributions to a housing assistance fund for employees based in Huizhou, China. We expect to commence contributions to the housing assistance fund now that we have listed our securities on the NYSE Amex. We expect that the costs and expenses of conducting our business operations will increase, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. PRC Government Regulations Business license Any company that conducts business in the PRC must have a business license that covers a particular type of work. Our business license covers our present business of to design, produce, and sell consumer electronic products, including digital camcorders, digital video recorders, digital audio recorders, digital audio and video coding and decoding equipments, digital audio radio equipments; produce and sell digital products for education and entertainment (MP3, MP4 and game box), PC equipment, and televisions, among other products. Prior to expanding our business beyond that of our business license, we are required to apply and receive approval from the PRC government. Sino-Foreign Equity Joint Venture Laws NIVS PRC, as a Sino-Foreign Equity Joint Venture, is governed by the Law of the People's Republic of China on Sino-Foreign Equity Joint Ventures, and its Implementation Regulations and other related rules, regulations and administrative orders. An equity joint venture in the PRC is an independent entity having the form of a limited liability company, similar to a regular corporation with limited liability organized under state laws in the United States of America. It is a "legal person" under PRC laws and has the right to own, use and dispose of property rights. The parties to the equity joint venture agree to share profits, risks and losses in the same proportion as their respective capital contributions to the equity joint venture. The operations of equity joint ventures are subject to an extensive body of laws and regulations governing such matters as registration, capital contribution, profit distribution, board of directors, accounting, taxation, foreign exchange and labor management. The PRC joint venture law stipulates that certain matters such as amendment to the articles of association, termination and dissolution of the equity joint venture, increase and transfer of the registered capital, and merger, must have the unanimous approval of the directors. The PRC joint venture law also provides that after payment of taxes, an equity joint venture must allocate to three funds, namely, a reserve fund, an expansion fund and a fund for employee welfare and bonuses, before profits may be distributed to the joint venture parties. Under current law, the board of directors of the joint venture is entitled to determine the percentage of net income that the joint venture will allocate to these three funds. The board of directors has elected to allocate 10% of the net income of the joint venture to each of these three funds each year. If the Chinese government elects in the future to require that the joint venture allocate more of the annual net income of the joint venture to these three funds, or if the Chinese government enacts other legislation that restricts the ability of the joint venture either to use its net income for business operations or to distribute dividends to us, our business could be adversely affected. 11 Employment laws We are subject to laws and regulations governing our relationship with our employees, including: wage and hour requirements, working and safety conditions, citizenship requirements, work permits and travel restrictions. These include local labor laws and regulations, which may require substantial resources for compliance. Environmental regulations We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the use, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances in the ordinary course of our manufacturing process. The major environmental regulations applicable to us include the PRC Environmental Protection Law, the PRC Law on the Prevention and Control of Water Pollution and its Implementation Rules, the PRC Law on the Prevention and Control of Air Pollution and its Implementation Rules, the PRC Law on the Prevention and Control of Solid Waste Pollution, and the PRC Law on the Prevention and Control of Noise Pollution. In addition, we have complied with European Union Directives on Restrictions on certain Hazardous Substances on electrical and electronic equipment (“RoHS”). We believe that our current manufacturing operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Although we believe that our current manufacturing operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, it is possible that future environmental legislation may be enacted or current environmental legislation may be interpreted to create environmental liability with respect to our other facilities, operations, or products. NIVS PRC constructed its manufacturing facilities with the PRC’s environmental laws and requirements in mind. We currently outsource the disposal of solid waste to a third party-contractor. We currently hold an environmental permit and Guangdong Province Pollution Charge Certificate issued by the Huizhou Environmental Protection Bureau covering our manufacturing operations. If we fail to comply with the provisions of the permit and environmental laws, we could be subject to fines, criminal charges or other sanctions by regulators, including the suspension or termination of our manufacturing operations. Patent protection in China The PRC’s intellectual property protection regime is consistent with those of other modern industrialized countries. The PRC has domestic laws for the protection of rights in copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade secrets. The PRC is also a signatory to most of the world’s major intellectual property conventions, including: · Convention establishing the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO Convention) (June 4, 1980); · Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property (March 19, 1985); · Patent Cooperation Treaty (January 1, 1994); and · The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) (November 11, 2001). Patents in the PRC are governed by the China Patent Law and its Implementing Regulations, each of which went into effect in 1985. Amended versions of the China Patent Law and its Implementing Regulations came into effect in 2001 and 2003, respectively. The PRC is signatory to the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, in accordance with which any person who has duly filed an application for a patent in one signatory country shall enjoy, for the purposes of filing in the other countries, a right of priority during the period fixed in the convention (12 months for inventions and utility models, and 6 months for industrial designs). The Patent Law covers three kinds of patents—patents for inventions, utility models and designs. The Chinese patent system adopts the principle of first to file; therefore, where more than one person files a patent application for the same invention, a patent can only be granted to the person who first filed the application. Consistent with international practice, the PRC only allows the patenting of inventions or utility models that possess the characteristics of novelty, inventiveness and practical applicability. For a design to be patentable, it cannot be identical with or similar to any design which, before the date of filing, has been publicly disclosed in publications in the country or abroad or has been publicly used in the country, and should not be in conflict with any prior right of another. 12 PRC law provides that anyone wishing to exploit the patent of another must conclude a written licensing contract with the patent holder and pay the patent holder a fee. One broad exception to this rule, however, is that, where a party possesses the means to exploit a patent but cannot obtain a license from the patent holder on reasonable terms and in reasonable period of time, the PRC State Intellectual Property Office, or SIPO, is authorized to grant a compulsory license. A compulsory license can also be granted where a national emergency or any extraordinary state of affairs occurs or where the public interest so requires. SIPO, however, has not granted any compulsory license to date. The patent holder may appeal such decision within three months from receiving notification by filing a suit in a people’s court. PRC law defines patent infringement as the exploitation of a patent without the authorization of the patent holder. Patent holders who believe their patent is being infringed may file a civil suit or file a complaint with a PRC local Intellectual Property Administrative Authority, which may order the infringer to stop the infringing acts. Preliminary injunction may be issued by the People’s Court upon the patentee’s or the interested parties’ request before instituting any legal proceedings or during the proceedings. Damages in the case of patent infringement is calculated as either the loss suffered by the patent holder arising from the infringement or the benefit gained by the infringer from the infringement. If it is difficult to ascertain damages in this manner, damages may be reasonably determined in an amount ranging from one to more times of the license fee under a contractual license. The infringing party may be also fined by Administration of Patent Management in an amount of up to three times the unlawful income earned by such infringing party. If there is no unlawful income so earned, the infringing party may be fined in an amount of up to RMB500,000, or approximately $62,500. Tax Pursuant to the Provisional Regulation of China on Value Added Tax and their implementing rules, all entities and individuals that are engaged in the sale of goods, the provision of repairs and replacement services and the importation of goods in China are generally required to pay VAT at a rate of 17.0% of the gross sales proceeds received, less any deductible VAT already paid or borne by the taxpayer. Further, when exporting goods, the exporter is entitled to a portion of or all the refund of VAT that it has already paid or borne. Our imported raw materials that are used for manufacturing export products and are deposited in bonded warehouses are exempt from import VAT. Foreign currency exchange Under the PRC foreign currency exchange regulations applicable to us, the Renminbi is convertible for current account items, including the distribution of dividends, interest payments, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions. Conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, such as direct investment, loan, security investment and repatriation of investment, however, is still subject to the approval of the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. Foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents and, in the case of capital account item transactions, obtaining approval from the SAFE. Capital investments by foreign-invested enterprises outside of China are also subject to limitations, which include approvals by the Ministry of Commerce, the SAFE and the State Reform and Development Commission. We currently do not hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Dividend distributions Under applicable PRC regulations, foreign-invested enterprises in China may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, a foreign-invested enterprise in China are required to set aside at least 10.0% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. The board of directors of a foreign-invested enterprise has the discretion to allocate a portion of its after-tax profits to staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Potential investors should carefully consider the material risks described below and all of the information contained in this Form 10-K before deciding whether to purchase any of our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occur. The trading price could decline due to any of these risks, and an investor may lose all or part of his investment. Some of these factors have affected our financial condition and operating results in the past or are currently affecting us. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 13 RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS We depend on a small number of customers for the vast majority of our sales. A reduction in business from any of these customers could cause a significant decline in our sales and profitability. The vast majority of our sales are generated from a small number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had seven customers that each accounted for at least 5% of the revenues that we generated, with one customer accounting for 12% of our revenue. These seven customers accounted for a total of approximately 44% of our revenue for that period. During the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had five and four customers that generated revenues of at least 5% of our revenues, with one customer accounting for 13% and 17% of our revenue, respectively. These customers accounted for a total of approximately 38% and 49% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a small number of customers for a significant majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. Our lack of long-term purchase orders and commitments could lead to a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. All of our significant customers issue purchase orders solely in their own discretion, often only two to four weeks before the requested date of shipment. Our customers are generally able to cancel orders or delay the delivery of products on relatively short notice. In addition, our customers may decide not to purchase products from us for any reason. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any of our current customers will continue to purchase our products in the future. As a result, our sales volume and profitability could decline rapidly with little or no warning whatsoever. We cannot rely on long-term purchase orders or commitments to protect us from the negative financial effects of a decline in demand for our products. The limited certainty of product orders can make it difficult for us to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with our actual sales. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales and, if our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. Furthermore, because we depend on a small number of customers for the vast majority of our sales, the magnitude of the ramifications of these risks is greater than if our sales were less concentrated with a small number of customers. As a result of our lack of long-term purchase orders and purchase commitments we may experience a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. Historically, a substantial portion of our assets has been comprised of accounts receivable representing amounts owed by a small number of customers. If any of these customers fails to timely pay us amounts owed, we could suffer a significant decline in cash flow and liquidity which, in turn, could cause us to be unable pay our liabilities and purchase an adequate amount of inventory to sustain or expand our sales volume. Our accounts receivable represented approximately 45%, 18% and 1% of our total current assets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, 34% of our accounts receivable represented amounts owed by five customers, each of which represented over 5% of the total amount of our accounts receivable. As a result of the substantial amount and concentration of our accounts receivable, if any of our major customers fails to timely pay us amounts owed, we could suffer a significant decline in cash flow and liquidity which could adversely affect our ability to borrow funds to pay our liabilities and to purchase inventory to sustain or expand our current sales volume. In addition, our business is characterized by long periods for collection from our customers and short periods for payment to our suppliers, the combination of which may cause us to have liquidity problems. We experience an average accounts settlement period ranging from one month to as high as four months from the time we sell our products to the time we receive payment from our customers. In contrast, we typically need to place certain deposits and advances with our suppliers on a portion of the purchase price in advance and for some suppliers we must maintain a deposit for future orders. Because our payment cycle is considerably shorter than our receivable cycle, we may experience working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. We cannot assure you that system problems, industry trends or other issues will not extend our collection period, adversely impact our working capital. 14 The growth of aging receivables and a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. We provide for bad debts principally based upon the aging of accounts receivable, in addition to collectability of specific customer accounts, our history of bad debts, and the general condition of the industry. Our doubtful account allowance at December 31, 2008 increased to approximately $3.4 million compared to $1.5 million at September 30, 2008 and $0.7 million at December 31, 2007. We believed it was appropriate to increase the reserve for doubtful accounts during the fourth quarter of 2008 primarily due to an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, the growth of the outstanding balance of receivables as of December 31, 2008, and the general decline in the domestic and global economy. Our general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 include a bad debt expense of approximately $2.5 million as compared to $0.5 million for the prior year. The increase in the bad debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 is primarily due to an increase in bad debt expense of approximately $1.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The increase in the bad debt expense in the fourth quarter was primarily due to an increase in the aging of our accounts. Due to the difficulty in assessing future trends, we could be required to further increase our provisions for doubtful accounts. As our accounts receivable age and become uncollectible our cash flow and results of operations are negatively impacted. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. We had negative working capital of approximately $18 million, $34 million and $12 million as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The negative working capital was largely caused by the substantial increase in financing from bank loans and notes. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the Notes and Credit Facility. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences for you, including: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; · requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; · exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments that we may have or obtain, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default the agreements governing such other indebtedness; · restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We have historically relied on credit to fund our business and we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to operate and grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. 15 Consumer electronics products are subject to rapid technological changes. If we fail to accurately anticipate and adapt to these changes, the products we sell will become obsolete, causing a decline in our sales and profitability. Consumer electronics products are subject to rapid technological changes which often cause product obsolescence. Companies within the consumer electronics industry are continuously developing new products with heightened performance and functionality. This puts pricing pressure on existing products and constantly threatens to make them, or causes them to be, obsolete. Our typical product's life cycle is extremely short, generating lower average selling prices as the cycle matures. If we fail to accurately anticipate the introduction of new technologies, we may possess significant amounts of obsolete inventory that can only be sold at substantially lower prices and profit margins than we anticipated. In addition, if we fail to accurately anticipate the introduction of new technologies, we may be unable to compete effectively due to our failure to offer products most demanded by the marketplace. If any of these failures occur, our sales, profit margins and profitability will be adversely affected. In addition, we form alliances or business relationships with, and make strategic partnerships with, other companies to introduce new technologies. This is particularly important to the development and enhancement of our Chinese interactive speech technology. In some cases, such relationships are crucial to our goal of introducing new products and services, but we may not be able to successfully collaborate or achieve expected synergies with our partners. We do not, however, control these partners, who may make decisions regarding their business undertakings with us that may be contrary to our interests. In addition, if these partners change their business strategies, we may fail to maintain these relationships. We do not carry any business interruption insurance, products liability insurance or any other insurance policy except for a limited property insurance policy. As a result, we may incur uninsured losses, increasing the possibility that you would lose your entire investment in our company. We could be exposed to liabilities or other claims for which we would have no insurance protection. We do not currently maintain any business interruption insurance, products liability insurance, or any other comprehensive insurance policy except for property insurance policies with limited coverage. As a result, we may incur uninsured liabilities and losses as a result of the conduct of our business. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain additional insurance coverage in the future, and even if we are able to obtain additional coverage, we may not carry sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy potential claims. Should uninsured losses occur, any purchasers of our common stock could lose their entire investment. Because we do not carry products liability insurance, a failure of any of the products marketed by us may subject us to the risk of product liability claims and litigation arising from injuries allegedly caused by the improper functioning or design of our products. We cannot assure that we will have enough funds to defend or pay for liabilities arising out of a products liability claim. To the extent we incur any product liability or other litigation losses, our expenses could materially increase substantially. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to pay for such expenses, which could end our operations and you would lose your entire investment. We expect to incur additional expenses due to contributions to a PRC housing assistance fund for our employees. We have employees based in Huizhou, China, and under applicable regulations we intend to commence contributions to a housing assistance fund for these employees. We expect to incur increased operation costs and expenses beginning in fiscal 2009 in connection with these contributions, ,which will have a negative effect on our results of operations. We may incur design and development expenses and purchase inventory in anticipation of orders which are not placed. In order to transact business, we assess the integrity and creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers and we may, based on this assessment, incur design and development costs that we expect to recoup over a number of orders produced for the customer. Such assessments are not always accurate and expose us to potential costs, including the write off of costs incurred and inventory obsolescence if the orders anticipated do not materialize. We may also occasionally place orders with suppliers based on a customer’s forecast or in anticipation of an order that is not realized. Additionally, from time to time, we may purchase quantities of supplies and materials greater than required by customer orders to secure more favorable pricing, delivery or credit terms. These purchases can expose us to losses from cancellation costs, inventory carrying costs or inventory obsolescence, and hence adversely affect our business and operating results. 16 We are subject to market risk through our sales to international markets. A growing percentage of our sales are being derived from international markets. These international sales are primarily focused in Europe, Southeast Asia, and North America. These operations are subject to risks that are inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the following: · foreign countries could change regulations or impose currency restrictions and other restraints; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates and hyperinflation or deflation in the foreign countries in which we operate; · exchange controls; · some countries impose burdensome tariffs and quotas; · political changes and economic crises may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate; · international conflict, including terrorist acts, could significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations; and · economic downturns, political instability and war or civil disturbances may disrupt distribution logistics or limit sales in individual markets. In addition, we utilize third-party distributors to act as our representative for the geographic region that they have been assigned. Sales through distributors represent approximately 70% of total revenue. Significant terms and conditions of distributor agreements include FOB source, net 30 days payment terms, with no return or exchange rights, and no price protection. Since the product transfers title to the distributor at the time of shipment by us, the products are not considered inventory on consignment. Our success is dependent on these distributors finding new customers and receiving new orders from existing customers. If our third party sales representatives and distributors fail to adequately promote, market and sell our products, our revenues could significantly decrease. A significant portion of our product sales are made through third party sales representative organizations, whose members are not our employees. Our level of sales depends on the effectiveness of these organizations, as well as the effectiveness of our own employees. Some of these third party representatives may sell (and do sell), with our permission, competitive products of third parties as well as our products. During our fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, these organizations were responsible for approximately 17%, 18% and 26%, respectively, of our net revenues during such periods. If any of the third party sales representative organizations engaged by us fails to adequately promote, market and sell our products, our revenues could be significantly decreased until a replacement organization or distributor can be retained by us. Finding replacement organizations and distributors can be a time consuming process during which our revenues could be negatively impacted. Our speech-controlled products may not achieve widespread acceptance or may have bugs, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to our customers or claims against us. We have invested and expect to continue to invest heavily in the research, development and marketing of our Chinese-speech technology consumer products. The market for these products are is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Our ability to increase revenue in the future depends largely on acceptance of speech-controlled consumer electronic products in general and our products in particular. The continued development of the market for our current and future speech solutions will also depend on: 17 · consumer and business demand for speech-enabled products and applications; · continuous improvement in speech interactive technology; and · development by third-party vendors and manufacturers of applications using speech technologies. Sales of our speech-controlled products would be harmed if the market for such products does not continue to develop or develops more slowly than we expect, and, consequently, our business would be harmed and we may not recover the costs associated with our investment in our speech interactive technologies. In addition, complex software applications, such as our Chinese speech interactive technology, often contain errors, defects or bugs. Defects in the solutions or products that we develop and sell to our customers could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about us or our products and services. Customers who are not satisfied with any of our products may also bring claims against us for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm our reputation, financial results and competitive position. We have significant outstanding short-term borrowings, and we may not be able to obtain extensions when they mature. Our notes payable to banks for short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were approximately $35.8 million, $28.6 million and $13.0 million, respectively. Generally, these short-term bank loans mature in one year or less and contain no specific renewal terms. However, in China it is customary practice for banks and borrowers to negotiate roll-overs or renewals of short-term borrowings on an on-going basis shortly before they mature. Although we have renewed our short-term borrowings in the past, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these loans in the future as they mature. If we are unable to obtain renewals of these loans or sufficient alternative funding on reasonable terms from banks or other parties, we will have to repay these borrowings with the cash on our balance sheet or cash generated by our future operations, if any. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay these borrowings. We may need additional capital to implement our current business strategy, which may not be available to us, and if we raise additional capital, it may dilute your ownership in us. We currently depend on bank loans and net revenues to meet our short-term cash requirements. In order to grow revenues and sustain profitability, we will need additional capital. We recently completed a public offering of shares of common stock, and we may conduct additional financing transactions in the future. Obtaining additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any additional financing. If we are unable to obtain the financing needed to implement our business strategy, our ability to increase revenues will be impaired and we may not be able to sustain profitability. We are subject to intense competition in the industry in which we operate, which could cause material reductions in the selling price of our products or losses of our market share. The consumer electronics industry is highly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new products and features. Our products compete in the medium- to high- priced sector of the consumer electronics market and compete primarily on the basis of reliability, brand recognition, quality, price, design, consumer acceptance of our trademark, and quality service and support to retailers and our customers. In recent years, we and many of our competitors, have regularly lowered prices, and we expect these pricing pressures to continue. If these pricing pressures are not mitigated by increases in volume, cost reductions from our supplier or changes in product mix, our revenues and profits could be substantially reduced. As compared to us, many of our competitors have: · significantly longer operating histories; · significantly greater managerial, financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources; and 18 · greater brand recognition. As a result, our competitors may be able to: · adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; · devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services; and · respond more effectively to pricing pressures. These factors could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, competition could increase if: · new companies enter the market; · existing competitors expand their product mix; or · we expand into new markets. An increase in competition could result in material price reductions or loss of our market share. The consumer electronics industry is subject to significant fluctuations in the availability of raw materials and components. If we do not properly anticipate the need for critical raw materials and components, we may be unable to meet the demands of our customers and end-users, which could reduce our competitiveness, cause a decline in our market share and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As the availability of raw materials and components decreases, the cost of acquiring those raw materials and components ordinarily increases. If we fail to procure adequate supplies of raw materials and components in anticipation of our customers' orders or end-users’ demand, our gross margins may be negatively impacted due to higher prices that we are required to pay for raw materials and components in short supply. High growth product categories have experienced chronic shortages of raw materials and components during periods of exceptionally high demand. If we do not properly anticipate the need for critical raw materials and components, we may pay higher prices for the raw materials and components, we may not be unable to meet the demands of our customers and end-users, which could reduce our competitiveness, cause a decline in our market share and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Unanticipated disruptions in our operations or slowdowns by our suppliers and shipping companies could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products and service our customers which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationships with our customers. Our ability to provide high quality customer service, process and fulfill orders and manage inventory depends on: · the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our distribution centers; and · the timely and uninterrupted performance of third party suppliers, shipping companies, and dock workers. Any material disruption or slowdown in the operation of our distribution centers, manufacturing facilities or management information systems, or comparable disruptions or slowdowns suffered by our principal manufacturers, suppliers and shippers could cause delays in our ability to receive, process and fulfill customer orders and may cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, goods to be returned or receipt of goods to be refused. As a result, our revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 19 We rely heavily on the founder of NIVS PRC and our current Chief Executive Officer, Tianfu Li. The loss of his services could adversely affect our ability to source products from our key suppliers and our ability to sell our products to our customers. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of Tianfu Li, who is the founder of NIVS PRC and our current Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Li has, among other things, developed key personal relationships with our suppliers and customers. We greatly rely on these relationships in the conduct of our operations and the execution of our business strategies. The loss of Mr. Li could, therefore, result in the loss of favorable relationships with one or more of our suppliers and/or customers. We do not maintain "key person" life insurance covering Mr. Li or any other executive officer. The loss of Mr. Li could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to effectively recruit and retain skilled employees, particularly scientific, technical and management professionals. Our ability to compete effectively depends largely on our ability to attract and retain certain key personnel, including scientific, technical and management professionals. We anticipate that we will need to hire additional skilled personnel in all areas of our business. Industry demand for such employees, however, exceeds the number of personnel available, and the competition for attracting and retaining these employees is intense. Because of this intense competition for skilled employees, we may be unable to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees to keep up with future business needs. If this should happen, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our labor costs are likely to increase as a result of changes in Chinese labor laws. We have recently experienced an increase in our cost of labor. Recent changes in Chinese labor laws that became effective January 1, 2008 increase costs and impose restrictions on our relationship with our employees. There can be no assurance that the labor laws will not change further or that their interpretation and implementation will vary, which may have a negative effect upon our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary rights. We own a trademark related to the sale of our products, which is materially important to our business, as well as our licenses, other trademarks and proprietary rights that are used for certain of our home entertainment and consumer electronics products. Our trademarks are registered in China. However, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us. In addition, in the event third party licensees fail to protect the integrity of our trademarks, the value of these marks could be materially adversely affected. Our inability to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect the license of our trade names and trademarks to third parties as well as our ability to sell our products. Litigation may be necessary to: · enforce our intellectual property rights; · protect our trade secrets; and · determine the scope and validity of such intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention from the operation of our business. We may receive notice of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Such actions could result in litigation and we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending such claims. The party making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief. Such relief could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute or market our products and services in such jurisdiction. We may also be required to seek licenses to such intellectual property. We cannot predict, however, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, that such licenses could be obtained on terms that are commercially reasonable and acceptable to us. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could delay or preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products and could result in increased costs to us. 20 Our failure to effectively manage growth could harm our business. We have rapidly and significantly expanded the number and types of products we sell, and we will endeavor to further expand our product portfolio. We must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products in order to remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions of our existing products. This expansion of our products places a significant strain on our management, operations and engineering resources. Specifically, the areas that are strained most by our growth include the following: · New Product Launch: With the growth of our product portfolio, we experience increased complexity in coordinating product development, manufacturing, and shipping. As this complexity increases, it places a strain on our ability to accurately coordinate the commercial launch of our products with adequate supply to meet anticipated customer demand and effective marketing to stimulate demand and market acceptance. If we are unable to scale and improve our product launch coordination, we could frustrate our customers and lose retail shelf space and product sales; · Forecasting, Planning and Supply Chain Logistics: With the growth of our product portfolio, we also experience increased complexity in forecasting customer demand and in planning for production, and transportation and logistics management. If we are unable to scale and improve our forecasting, planning and logistics management, we could frustrate our customers, lose product sales or accumulate excess inventory; and · Support Processes: To manage the growth of our operations, we will need to continue to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, and procedures and controls to effectively manage the increased complexity. If we are unable to scale and improve these areas, the consequences could include: delays in shipment of product, degradation in levels of customer support, lost sales, decreased cash flows, and increased inventory. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to expand. Our facilities and information systems could be damaged as a result of disasters or unpredictable events, which could have an adverse effect on our business operations. Our headquarters and major facilities including manufacturing plants, sales offices and research and development centers are located in China. We also operate procurement, logistics, sales and marketing facilities in other parts of the world. If major disasters such as earthquakes, fires, floods, wars, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, transportation disasters or other events occur, or our information system or communications network breaks down or operates improperly as a result of such events, our facilities may be seriously damaged, and we may have to stop or delay production and shipment. We may incur expenses relating to such damages. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China, and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and accordingly on the results of our operations and financial condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under the current government leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. 21 Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations that are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof, may have a material and adverse effect on our business. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States, decided legal cases have little value as precedent in China. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to, governmental approvals required for conducting business and investments, laws and regulations governing the consumer electronics business and electric product safety, national security-related laws and regulations and export/import laws and regulations, as well as commercial, antitrust, patent, product liability, environmental laws and regulations, consumer protection, and financial and business taxation laws and regulations. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. Our principal operating subsidiary, Huizhou NIVS Audio & Video Technology Company Limited, (“NIVS PRC”), is considered a foreign invested enterprise under PRC laws, and as a result is required to comply with PRC laws and regulations, including laws and regulations specifically governing the activities and conduct of foreign invested enterprises. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. If the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · levying fines; · revoking our business license, other licenses or authorities; · requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and · requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. Investors may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against us or our management. Most of our current operations, including the manufacturing and distribution of our products, are conducted in China. Moreover, all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of China or Hong Kong. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. The scope of our business license in China is limited, and we may not expand or continue our business without government approval and renewal, respectively. Our principal operating subsidiary, NIVS PRC, is a Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture, which can only conduct business within its approved business scope, which ultimately appears on its business license. Any amendment to the scope of our business requires further application and government approval. In order for us to expand our business beyond the scope of our license, it will be required to enter into a negotiation with the authorities for the approval to expand the scope of our business. We cannot assure investors that NIVS PRC will be able to obtain the necessary government approval for any change or expansion of its business. 22 We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations related to our manufacturing operations. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that require us to obtain environmental permits for our electronics manufacturing operations. Our environmental permit from the Huizhou Environmental Protection Bureau covering our manufacturing operations will expire in December 2010. The permit only covers of the existing premises at our manufacturing facility, and if we expand our operations, we will have to obtain further certification from the Bureau. In addition, we are required to renew some of our environmental certificates each year. If we do not receive the renewed permit or we fail to comply with the provisions of the renewed permit, we could be subject to fines, criminal charges or other sanctions by regulators, including the suspension or termination of our manufacturing operations. We cannot assure you that at all times we will be in compliance with environmental laws and regulations or our environmental permits or that we will not be required to expend significant funds to comply with, or discharge liabilities arising under, environmental laws, regulations and permits. Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, for our public offering and the listing and trading of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE,” issued a public notice in November 2005, known as Circular 75, concerning the use of offshore holding companies in mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice provides that if an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also suggests that registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the PRC residents of shares in an offshore holding company that owns an onshore company. The PRC residents must each submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch with respect to their ownership interests in the offshore company, and must also file an amendment to such registration if the offshore company experiences material events, such as changes in the share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. If any PRC resident stockholder of an offshore holding company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amended registration, the onshore PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore entity. Failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Most of our PRC resident stockholders, as defined in the SAFE notice, have not registered with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in NIVS BVI. Because of uncertainty in how the SAFE notice will be interpreted and enforced, we cannot be sure how it will affect our business operations or future plans. For example, NIVS PRC’s ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE notice by our PRC resident beneficial holders. Failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit NIVS PRC’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. On August 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, released a substantially amended version of the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge with or Acquire Domestic Enterprises (the “Revised M&A Regulations”), which took effect September 8, 2006. These new rules significantly revised China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-to-offshore restructurings and foreign acquisitions of domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. 23 Among other things, the revised M&A Regulations include new provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. NIVS’ PRC counsel, Guangdong Laowei Law Firm, has advised us that because we completed our onshore-to-offshore restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it is not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our Common Stock does not require CSRC approval. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. Also, if later the CSRC requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, published news reports in China recently indicated that the CSRC may have curtailed or suspended overseas listings for Chinese private companies. These news reports have created further uncertainty regarding the approach that the CSRC and other PRC regulators may take with respect to us. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of Circular 75 and the Revised M&A Regulations. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and we will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure that our domestic and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to foreign exchange control regulations of China. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balance of the Chinese operating subsidiaries. Because substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and a substantial majority of our revenues are generated in China, a majority of our revenue being earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi (RMB). RMB is subject to the exchange control regulation in China, and, as a result, we may be unable to distribute any dividends outside of China due to PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. Accordingly, we may not be able to access NIVS PRC’s funds which may not be readily available to us to satisfy obligations which have been incurred outside the PRC, which could adversely affect our business and prospects or our ability to meet our cash obligations. The foreign currency exchange rate between U.S. Dollars and Renminbi could adversely affect our financial condition. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. Dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. Dollar at that time. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. Dollars for the operational needs or paying dividends on our common stock, the dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced should the dollar appreciate against the Renminbi. We currently do not hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Until 1994, the Renminbi experienced a gradual but significant devaluation against most major currencies, including dollars, and there was a significant devaluation of the Renminbi on January 1, 1994 in connection with the replacement of the dual exchange rate system with a unified managed floating rate foreign exchange system. Since 1994, the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. Dollar has remained stable and has appreciated slightly against the U.S. Dollar. Countries, including the United States, have argued that the Renminbi is artificially undervalued due to China’s current monetary policies and have pressured China to allow the Renminbi to float freely in world markets. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the dollar. Under the new policy the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of designated foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the dollar. 24 Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the inflation rate in China reached a high point of 4.8% in 2007 as compared to the past several years. The inflation rate in China was 1.8% in 2005 and 1.5% in 2006. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Furthermore, in order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. In October 2004, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. In April 2006, the People’s Bank of China raised the interest rate again. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products and services. Because our funds are held in banks which do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. A significant portion of our assets are in the form of cash deposited with banks in the PRC, and in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to our funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. As our ultimate holding company is a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt an equity compensation plan for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also know as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We intend to adopt an equity compensation plan in the future and make option grants to our officers and directors, most of who are PRC citizens. Circular 78 may require our officers and directors who receive option grants and are PRC citizens to register with SAFE. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. 25 NIVS PRC has enjoyed certain preferential tax concessions and the loss of these preferential tax concessions may cause our tax liabilities to increase and our profitability to decline. Under the tax laws of the PRC, NIVS PRC has had tax advantages granted by local government for corporate income taxes and sales taxes commencing April 6, 2004. NIVS PRC has been entitled to have a full tax exemption for the first two profitable years, followed by a 50% reduction on normal tax rate of 24% for the following three consecutive years. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, under which foreign invested enterprises and domestic companies will be subject to enterprise income tax at a uniform rate of 25%. The new law became effective on January 1, 2008. During the transition period for enterprises established before March 16, the tax rate will be gradually increased starting in 2008 and be equal to the new tax rate in 2012. The expiration of the preferential tax treatment will increase our tax liabilities and reduce our profitability. Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem, in the PRC could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS, Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where the substantial portion of our sales occur, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our business is dependent upon its ability to continue to manufacture products. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: · quarantines or closures of some of our manufacturing facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. A downturn in the economy of the PRC may slow our growth and profitability. A significant portion of our revenues are generated from sales in China. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business, especially if it results in either a decreased use of our products or in pressure on us to lower our prices. Because our business is located in the PRC, we may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls, which we are required to do in order to comply with U.S. securities laws. PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. Most of our middle and top management staff are not educated and trained in the Western system, and we may have difficulty hiring new employees in the PRC with such training. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 26 RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our stock price is volatile and you might not be able to resell your securities at or above the price you have paid. Prior the listing of our Common Stock on the NYSE Amex in March 2009, there has been no public market for our securities in the United States. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop or be sustained or that the market price of our common stock will not decline. The price at which our Common Stock has traded has been highly volatile.. You might not be able to sell the shares of our common stock at or above the price you have paid. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of its listed companies. Moreover, only a limited number of our shares are traded each day, which could increase the volatility of the price of our stock. These market fluctuations might cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. The market price of our common stock might fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations; · changes in securities analysts’ expectations; · variations in our operating results, which could cause us to fail to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations; · announcements by our competitors or us of significant new products, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · conditions and trends in our industry; · general market, economic, industry and political conditions; · changes in market values of comparable companies; · additions or departures of key personnel; · stock market price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels; and · future sales of equity or debt securities, including sales which dilute existing investors. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of outstanding stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Common Stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 27, 2009, we had approximately 39.6 million shares of Common Stock outstanding. In March 2009, we conducted a registered public offering of 550,000 shares of common stock, and all of these shares are now freely tradable. Also in March 2009, we registered for resale a total of 7,639,855 shares of common stock, of which 6,544,047 shares were issued in an equity financing that was conducted in connection with the Share Exchange (the “Private Placement Shares”). Each investor may sell or transfer any of the Private Placement Shares pursuant to the effective registration statement, except that they entered into a lock-up agreement pursuant to which they agreed not to conduct any sales until 90 days after our common stock was listed or quoted on a national securities exchange, at which time one-twelfth of the shares purchased may be sold, and thereafter the shares will be automatically released from the lock-up restrictions every 30 days in eleven equal installments. In addition, WestPark Capital, Inc., in its discretion, may release some or all the shares earlier than the schedule set forth in this section. Any early release by WestPark Capital, Inc. will apply equally to each of the investors in the Private Placement. We also agreed to register 2,615,859 shares and shares underlying warrants held by affiliates of WestPark, which are included in a registration statement filed by us on March 26, 2009. The registration statement has not yet been declared effective by the SEC. All of the shares included in an effective registration statement may be freely sold and transferred, subject to a lock-up agreement. 27 Additionally, in connection with our public offering in March 2009, the former stockholders of NIVS BVI and their designees, which collectively hold 27,546,667 shares of our common stock, entered into a lock up agreement with the underwriter pursuant to which they agreed not to sell or transfer any of their shares until March 2011, subject to release from the underwriter, after which the shares may be sold subject to Rule 144. Under Rule 144, an affiliate stockholder who has satisfied a the required holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. As of March 27, 2009, 1% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock was approximately 396,462 shares. Non-affiliate stockholders are not subject to volume limitations. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to any resale prospectus or Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock by creating an excessive supply. The interests of the existing minority shareholder in NIVS PRC may diverge from our own interests and this may adversely affect our ability to manage NIVS PRC. NIVS PRC, our principal operating subsidiary, is an equity joint venture in which we, through NIVS BVI, directly own a 97.5% interest and the founder of NIVS PRC and our current Chief Executive Office and Chairman of the Board, Tianfu Li, owns the remaining 2.5% interest. See Note 1 to the financial statements of this report for more information on our organization and ownership structure. Mr. Li’s interest may not be aligned with our interest at all times. If our interests diverge, Mr. Li may exercise his rights, as dictated under PRC laws, to protect his own interest, which may be adverse to us and our investors. For example, should we wish to transfer our equity interest in NIVS PRC, in whole or in part, to a third-party, Mr. Li, if he dissents to such a transfer, will have a right to have his interests purchased under general company regulations. If Mr. Li exercises his rights, any proposed sale and transfer of our interests in NIVS PRC may be delayed and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Following the Share Exchange, the former principal shareholders of NIVS BVI and their designees have significant influence over us. The former shareholders of NIVS BVI and their designees beneficially own or control approximately 75% of our outstanding shares. If these shareholders were to act as a group, they would have a controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, and other significant corporate actions. Such shareholders may also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without the consent of the former NIVS BVI shareholders and their designees, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of the former NIVS BVI shareholders and their designees may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any failure of these controls could also prevent us from maintaining accurate accounting records and discovering accounting errors and financial frauds. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by our independent registered public accountants. The SEC extended the compliance dates for non-accelerated filers, as defined by the SEC. Accordingly, we believe that the annual assessment of our internal controls requirement will first apply to our annual report for the 2008 fiscal year and the attestation requirement of management’s assessment by our independent registered public accountants will first apply to our annual report for the 2009 fiscal year. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. In October 2008, our independent registered public accounting firm Kempisty & Company Certified Public Accountants, P.C. (“Kempisty”), informed us that our financial statements for the years ended 2007, 2006, and 2005 and the quarter ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 contained an error in the accounting treatment of imputed interest on due to shareholders loan, resulting in an understatement of our expenses for those periods. Furthermore, in November 2008, our management identified a material weakness in our controls and procedures regarding our failure to timely disclose and prevent loan transactions made to entities owned and controlled by our CEO and related parties in violation of Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We may encounter additional problems or delays in completing activities necessary to improve our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent registered public accountants is new and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. 28 In addition, management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s attestation to our report on management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We provided loans to certain entities owned and controlled by our chief executive officer in violation of Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and we and/or our chief executive officer could become subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, penalties, or investigations and may also face potential private securities litigation. Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Section 402") prohibits us from directly or indirectly, including through any subsidiary, extending or maintaining credit, arranging for the extension of credit, or renewing an extension of credit, in the form of a personal loan to or for any of our directors or executive officers. Prior to the Share Exchange, our subsidiaries entered into loan transactions with NIVS PRC’s founder and our principal shareholder and current Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Tianfu Li. In these transactions, our subsidiaries would borrow funds from Mr. Li. In addition, our subsidiaries would lend funds to entities that were owned and controlled by Mr. Li. These entities are NIVS Investment (SZ) Co., Ltd.; Zhongkena Technology Development; Xentsan Technology (SZ) Co., Ltd.; Korea Hyundai Light & Electric (Int'l) Holding; NIVS Information & Technology (HZ) Co., Ltd.; and Hyundai Light & Electric (HZ) Co., Ltd. (collectively, the “Related Companies”). The loans, which were unsecured with no fixed repayment date, were for temporary funding of each of the Related Companies’ business. It was intended that all loans from the Company to the entities owned by our CEO and related parties be repaid prior to the closing of the Share Exchange, and no further loans would be made after the closing of the Share Exchange. In November 2008, it was discovered that the loans to entities owned by our CEO and related parties continued after the closing of the Share Exchange, as more fully described in notes to the financial statements contained in this report. Although we have attempted to take remedial steps to address the violation of Section 402 by requiring immediate and full repayment of all outstanding loan balances, the violation of Section 402 may cause governmental authorities, such as the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, to subject us to criminal, civil, or administrative sanctions, penalties, or investigations, which may not be resolved favorably and will require significant management time and attention, and we could incur costs which could materially and negatively affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. There are no assurances that an investigation or litigation will not commence, and if commenced, that such investigation or litigation will result in a favorable outcome for us. Similarly, private parties may also initiate civil litigation against us for such violations. We may not be able to achieve the benefits we expect to result from the Share Exchange. On July 25, 2008, the Share Exchange closed and NIVS BVI became our 100%-owned subsidiary, and our sole business operations became that of NIVS BVI. We also appointed a new Board of Directors and management consisting of persons from NIVS BVI and changed our corporate name from SRKP 19, Inc. to NIVS IntelliMedia Technology Group, Inc. We may not realize the benefits that we hoped to receive as a result of the Share Exchange, which include: · access to the capital markets of the United States; · the increased market liquidity expected to result from exchanging stock in a private company for securities of a public company that may eventually be traded; 29 · the ability to use registered securities to make acquisition of assets or businesses; · increased visibility in the financial community; · enhanced access to the capital markets; · improved transparency of operations; and · perceived credibility and enhanced corporate image of being a publicly traded company. There can be no assurance that any of the anticipated benefits of the Share Exchange will be realized with respect to our new business operations. In addition, the attention and effort devoted to achieving the benefits of the Share Exchange and attending to the obligations of being a public company, such as reporting requirements and securities regulations, could significantly divert management’s attention from other important issues, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results or stock price in the future. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the public markets and public reporting. NIVS’ management team will need to invest significant management time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. We incurred an expense charge of $765,000 in connection with the issuance of 425,000 shares of common stock that we issued in connection with an agreement for investor relations services. We entered into a two-year consulting agreement with Nascent Value LLC (“Nascent”) pursuant to which we issued 425,000 shares of our common stock to Nascent. In connection with the issuance of the shares of common stock, we recognized a charge to stock compensation in the third quarter of 2008 in the amount of $765,000, which is derived from valuing each share at $1.80, the price at which shares of our common stock were sold in the Private Placement. The expense had a negative effect on our results of operations and we may not realize a benefit from the investor relations services that is comparable to such negative effect. As a result, our operations may suffer and our stock price may decline. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock,” and thereby be subject to additional sale and trading regulations that may make it more difficult to sell. Our common stock may be considered to be a “penny stock” if it does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act for 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Our common stock may be a “penny stock” if it meets one or more of the following conditions (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is NOT traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is NOT quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or even if so, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company that has been in business less than three years with net tangible assets less than $5 million. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. 30 We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, our investors’ sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. As a result, investors should not rely on an investment in our securities if they require the investment to produce dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be investors’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, investors may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 