D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our limited operating history and recent acquisition may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and future prospects. We commenced operations and began offering our pharmaceutical and biotechnology R&D outsourcing services in 2001, and in January 2008, we acquired AppTec, which commenced operations in 2001, which expands our services to include biopharmaceutical and medical device testing and biologics-based manufacturing and related services. Accordingly, our operating history upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business and its acceptance by industry participants is limited. Our business model evolved significantly with our acquisition of AppTec and continues to evolve in conjunction with the evolution of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing market in China and globally. These circumstances may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and future prospects, and you should not rely on our past results or our historic growth rate as an indication of our future performance. A limited number of our customers have accounted and are expected to continue to account for a high percentage of our revenues. The loss of or significant reduction in orders from any of these customers could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. WuXi’s three largest customers in 2007, Pfizer Inc, or Pfizer, Merck & Co., Inc., or Merck, and Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, or Vertex, accounted for 15.0%, 12.2% and 11.2% of our net revenues in 2007, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in those years. WuXi’s top ten customers, which varied in each of the last three years, accounted for approximately 73%, 69% and 74% of our net revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Furthermore, we generated substantially all of our total net revenues over the last three years from sales to customers located in the United States. Our existing customers may not continue generating significant revenues for us once our engagements with them conclude and our relationships with them may not present further business opportunities. Due to our customer concentration, any of the following events, among others, may cause material revenue fluctuations or declines and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects: • order or contract reduction, delay or cancellation by one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; • decision by one or more of our significant customers to award orders or contracts to our competitors; and • one or more of our significant customers substantially reduce the price they are willing to pay for our services and products. 10 Table of Contents Furthermore, if we fail to build new customer relationships or continue to develop relationships with our existing customers, we may be unable to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenues. A payment failure by any of our large customers could adversely affect our cash flows and profitability. Historically, we have not experienced any significant bad debt or collection problem, but such problems may arise in the future. The failure of any of our customers to make timely payments could require us to write off accounts receivable or increase provisions made against our accounts receivable, either of which could adversely affect our cash flows and profitability. The loss of services of our senior management and key scientific personnel could severely disrupt our business and growth. Our success significantly depends upon the continued service of our senior management and key scientific personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on Dr. Ge Li, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who has managed our business, operations and sales and marketing activities and maintained personal and direct relationships with our major customers since our inception, as well as Dr. Shuhui Chen, our Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Suhan Tang, our Chief Manufacturing Officer, Mr. Xiaozhong Liu, our Executive Vice President, and other senior management members and key scientific personnel. The loss of any one of them, in particular Dr. Li, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Although each member of our senior management and key scientific personnel has signed a noncompete agreement with us, we may be unable to successfully enforce these provisions in the event of a dispute. If we lose the services of any senior management members or key scientific personnel, we may be unable to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. Our ability to execute projects, maintain, expand or renew existing customer engagements and obtain new customers depends largely on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled scientists and mid-level personnel. Our success largely depends on the R&D efforts of mid-level personnel and their ability to keep pace with continuing changes in drug and medical device R&D technologies and methodologies. In particular, our customers value Western-trained scientists, preferably with large pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology company experience. Our success also depends on the depth and quantity of our scientists and mid-level personnel. Any inability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified scientists and mid-level personnel, or keep these employees updated and capable of keeping pace with industry changes, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We face challenges in attracting and maintaining a consistent quality standard throughout our employee base at our current growth rate. Our employee base increased from 252 in 2003 to 2,647 in 2007, and further increased by 516 employees with the AppTec acquisition. We expect to significantly increase our employee base in 2008. We compete vigorously with pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and contract research firms and academic and research institutions for qualified and experienced scientists and mid-level personnel, particularly in the areas of chemistry, biology and pharmaceutical manufacturing. To effectively compete, we may be required to offer higher compensation and other benefits which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to hire and retain enough skilled and experienced scientists to replace those who leave. Additionally, we may be unable to redeploy and retrain our professionals to keep pace with technological changes, evolving standards and changing customer preferences. 11 Table of Contents We face increasingly intense competition. If we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, demand for our services and related revenues may decrease and subject us to increasing pricing pressure. The global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing markets are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify. We face competition based on several factors, including quality, ability to protect confidential information and intellectual property, timeliness, good manufacturing practices, depth of customer relationship, pricing and geography. We compete with contract research and manufacturing companies and research and academic institutions, typically in particular service areas. For example, we compete with Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., which recently partnered with Shanghai BioExplorer Co., Ltd., in the preclinical services area, and Shanghai ChemPartner Co., Ltd. in the discovery chemistry area. As a result of the AppTec acquisition, we also compete with other companies in the biologics area, including BioReliance Corporation and Lonza Group Ltd. However, we believe that we do not compete with any single company across the breadth of our service offerings. We expect to increasingly compete against multinational companies, both domestically and internationally, as we continue to offer more complex and sophisticated laboratory and manufacturing services. Several major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies have made in-house research investments in China, and we expect this trend to continue. These in-house investments may reduce demand for our services and result in increased competition for qualified personnel. Some of our larger competitors may have: • greater financial, research and other resources; • broader scope of services; • greater pricing flexibility; • more extensive technical capabilities; and • greater name recognition. We also expect increased competition as new companies enter our market and more advanced technologies become available. Our services and expertise may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances or new approaches or technologies. Our competitors’ existing or new approaches or technologies they develop may be more effective than those we develop. Furthermore, increased competition exacerbates pricing pressure on our services, which could reduce our margins and profitability. If we fail to effectively manage our anticipated growth and execute on our growth strategies, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer. Pursuing our growth strategies, including integrating and expanding our facilities and service offerings to meet our customers’ needs, has resulted in and will continue to result in substantial demands on our management and resources. Managing this growth and our growth strategies will require, among other things: • continued enhancement of our drug and medical device R&D capabilities; • effective coordination and integration of our research facilities and teams, particularly those located in different or newly opened facilities; • successful personnel hiring and training; • effective cost controls and sufficient liquidity; • effective and efficient financial and management controls; • increased marketing and sales support activities; 12 Table of Contents • effective quality control; and • the ability to manage our various vendors and suppliers and leverage our purchasing power. Any failure to effectively manage our anticipated growth and execute on growth strategies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be unable to expand our capacity and scale up our operations as anticipated, possibly resulting in material delay, increased costs and lost business opportunities. We are engaged in a substantial capacity expansion program. Major projects include the expansion of our Jinshan facility to quadruple its manufacturing capacity that is currently expected to commence operations in late 2008, and the construction of a preclinical drug safety evaluation center with a broad range of toxicology services in Suzhou that we are planning to inaugurate in 2009. These facilities may not be constructed on the anticipated timetable or within budget. Any material delay in bringing these facilities on-line or scaling up operations, or any substantial cost increases to complete them or scale up operations, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and result in lost business opportunities. We are making significant capital investments to scale up our services to meet our customers’ needs and, as a result, we depend on the success of our customers’ projects and their continued business. We are expanding our Jinshan facility primarily to serve the process development and manufacturing needs of Vertex, one of our major customers, related to a single Phase III clinical trial drug candidate. We expect that manufacturing of this drug candidate will occupy a significant portion of the facility’s capacity. Vertex accounted for 11.2% of our net revenues in 2007, and we expect Vertex to continue to be a significant customer for the foreseeable future. As a result, any downturn in Vertex’s business that affects its ability to continue the drug development project we are servicing could disrupt our growth plan and may harm our financial condition. If the FDA does not approve this candidate or if its development is delayed, Vertex may terminate or significantly reduce its orders with us. Consequently, we may be required to reallocate our resources, which could cause delays in our service offerings and result in lower than expected revenues. As we develop our manufacturing services further, we may become more dependent on the success of specific drug candidates that are in development by one or more of our major customers. We may fail to effectively develop and market new services, which may harm our growth opportunities and prospects, possibly resulting in related losses. We intend to continue to expand our existing laboratory and manufacturing services and offer new services in preclinical development, formulation and manufacturing areas. In 2007, we began to offer preclinical development services, pharmaceutical development services and clinical trial materials manufacturing. We are currently establishing discovery biology services. To successfully develop and market our new services, we must: • accurately assess and meet customer needs and market demands; • optimize our drug discovery, development and manufacturing processes as well as medical device development processes to predict and control costs; • hire, train and retain proper personnel; • provide services in a timely manner; • increase customer awareness and acceptance of our services; • obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals; • compete effectively with other R&D outsourcing providers; 13 Table of Contents • price our services competitively; and • effectively integrate customer feedback into our business planning. If we are unable to develop new services and create demand for those newly developed services, or expand our service offerings through acquisitions, our future business, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our acquisition of AppTec and any future acquisitions we undertake may divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our ability to effectively manage our business. Our recent acquisition of AppTec is part of our strategy to acquire new technologies, businesses and services and create strategic alliances. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional businesses that are complementary to our existing business. Our integration of AppTec has required, and will continue to require, significant attention from our management. Future acquisitions will likely present similar challenges. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the integration of AppTec could have an adverse effect on the ability to effectively manage our business. Our recent acquisition of AppTec, as well as any future acquisitions, could require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. These activities may divert significant management attention from existing business operations. We may experience difficulties in managing and integrating AppTec’s business and the business of any future acquisitions and may not realize the acquisition’s anticipated benefits. Realizing the benefits of our acquisition of AppTec will depend in substantial part on the successful integration of technologies, operations and personnel. Prior to the acquisition, WuXi and AppTec operated independently, each with its own operations, corporate culture, employees and systems. We now operate as a combined organization and have begun integrating or utilizing common business, information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including benefits, training and professional development programs. We face significant challenges integrating the technologies, operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. Some of the challenges and difficulties involved in this integration include: • demonstrating to customers that the acquisition will not result in adverse changes in client service standards or business focus and assisting customers conduct business successfully with the combined company; • coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively communicate our capabilities; • coordinating and rationalizing commercialization and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies; • preserving important customer and supplier relationships of both companies and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; • management distraction from the business of the combined company; • retaining senior management and key scientific personnel and attracting and retaining other skilled scientists and mid-level personnel; • incompatibility of corporate cultures; • costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures; • consolidating and rationalizing corporate, information technology and administrative infrastructures; • integrating and documenting processes and controls in conformance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and 14 Table of Contents • operating at multiple sites in the United States and the PRC. We may experience similar difficulties for any future acquisitions. Completed acquisitions may also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, our inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs, expenses related to the acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers as a result of our integration of new businesses, any of which could significantly disrupt our ability to manage our business. As a result of the AppTec acquisition, we are a larger and more geographically diverse organization. The inability to manage successfully the geographically more diverse organization could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. As a result of the AppTec acquisition, we had approximately 3,172 full-time employees as of May 31, 2008 located in China and the U.S. We will face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The inability to manage successfully the geographically more diverse organization could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There may be unknown risks inherent in our acquisition of AppTec, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have conducted due diligence with respect to our acquisition of AppTec, we may not be aware of all of the risks associated with the acquisition. Any discovery of adverse information concerning AppTec since the acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. While we are entitled to seek indemnification in certain circumstances, successfully asserting indemnification or enforcing such indemnification could be costly and time consuming or may not be successful at all. We expect that our overall gross margin may face downward pressure due to the AppTec acquisition, as manufacturing services become an increasingly large component of our service mix, and employee compensation costs rise. Our overall gross margin has faced downward pressure, decreasing from 54.1% in 2005 to 49.1% in 2006 and 46.5% in 2007, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. The expected decline in our gross margin is driven, in part, by the anticipated growth of our manufacturing services segment, which typically has a significantly lower gross margin, as a larger component of our service mix. In 2006 and 2007, our manufacturing services segment accounted for 14.5% and 24.3% of our net revenues, respectively, and we expect it to continue to be a significant revenue contributor in 2008 and beyond as the expansion of our manufacturing services capacity comes online. Employee compensation is also a substantial component of our costs and therefore an important factor in determining our gross profit and margin. We may need to increase wages to remain competitive with the market. Our pricing policies and mechanisms may not completely account for the potential wage increases which could negatively impact our gross margin. Our acquisition of AppTec will apply additional pressure on our overall gross margin, as AppTec’s overall gross margin in 2007 was 27.0%. Because many of our fee-for-service based contracts are contingent on successful completion and are of a fixed price nature, we may bear financial risk if we do not successfully or timely develop a service or invoke below-cost pricing of our contracts due to competitive pressures or strategic objectives or overrun cost estimates. A significant portion of our net revenues, including part of our laboratory segment revenues and all of our manufacturing services segment revenues, are based on fee-for-service contracts, which are contingent on successful completion and are often structured as fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap. Therefore, we bear financial risk if we do not successfully or timely develop a product or if we intentionally price our fee-for-service 15 Table of Contents based contracts below our cost estimate or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. We also face pricing pressures from some of our competitors, with whom we often compete for new customers. To capture market share and establish cost competitiveness, we have, in the past, intentionally priced some fee-for-service based contracts below our cost estimate. Below-cost pricing or significant cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our customer agreements contain provisions that are against our interests or expose us to potential liability. Our agreements with our customers generally provide that the customers can terminate the agreements or reduce the scope of services under the agreements with short or no notice. For a majority of our customer agreements, our customers have the unilateral right to terminate for convenience upon prior notice ranging from 30 to 90 days. Although we have not been materially and adversely affected by contract cancellations or modifications in the past, if a customer terminates a contract with us, we are only entitled under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned until the date of termination. Therefore, cancellation or modification of a large contract or proximate cancellation or modification of multiple contracts could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In some of our customer agreements, we have assumed indemnification obligations for intellectual property infringement by the customer deliverables that we provide to the extent that we create the infringing aspect of the deliverables. Our liability is usually not capped under these agreements. As a result, if any aspect of customer deliverables that we create infringes a third party’s intellectual property rights, and particularly if such deliverable ultimately becomes a commercially successful product, we could be potentially exposed to substantial liability. In addition, in some of our customer agreements, we agree, either by ourselves or together with third parties, not to compete with the customer. We are required to seek the customer’s prior written consent before making compounds chemically similar to those made for the customer. For some customers, our noncompete obligation is onerous. For example, we have agreed that, for up to ten years after termination of the agreement, any employee who has worked on the customer’s projects may not work on any other project whereby the knowledge gained from such customer’s projects would be relevant. Complying with these noncompete obligations may restrict our ability to expand certain service offerings, and failure to comply could significantly harm our business and reputation, as well as expose us to liability for breach of contract. We depend on a limited number of supply sources for several of our service offerings, which, if interrupted, could cause disruption or delay to our services, reduce our sales and force us to use more expensive supply sources. We depend on a limited number of international sources for our supply of certain reagents and other chemicals required in our product and service offerings, and particularly in connection with our manufacturing services. Disruptions or delays to their continued supply may arise from health problems, export or import restrictions or embargoes, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather conditions, disruptions to the air travel system, contract disputes or other disruptions. If the supply of certain materials were interrupted, our services would be delayed. We also may not be able to secure alternative supply sources in a timely and cost- effective manner. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of required materials that meet our standards or at acceptable costs, or at all, our ability to accept and fulfill customer orders in the required quality and quantity and at the required time could be restricted, which in turn could harm our reputation, reduce our sales, cause us to lose market share, force us to use more expensive sources of supply, and ultimately could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 16 Table of Contents Our principal laboratory and manufacturing facilities may be vulnerable to natural disasters or other unforeseen catastrophic events. We conduct our primary R&D activities at our headquarters located in the Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone. We also conduct R&D activities at our other three facilities in China, located in the Jinshan area of Shanghai, Tianjin and Suzhou, and at our three United States facilities in St. Paul, Minnesota, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Atlanta, Georgia. We depend on these facilities for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortage, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars, or, as occurred in December 2006, the disruption of sea-floor fiber optical cables due to earthquakes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business in its ordinary course. Our facilities and certain equipment located in these facilities would be difficult to replace in any such event and could require substantial replacement lead time. The occurrence of any such event could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we fail to protect the intellectual property rights of our customers, we may be subject to liability for breach of contract and may suffer damage to our reputation. Protection of intellectual property associated with drug and medical device R&D services is critical to all our customers. In our business of providing drug and medical device R&D services, our customers generally retain ownership of all associated intellectual property, including those they provide to us and those arising from the services we provided. Our success therefore depends in substantial part on our ability to protect the proprietary rights of our customers. This is particularly important for us because a large part of our operation is based in China, and China, as well as Chinese companies, has not traditionally enforced intellectual property protection to the same extent as the United States. Despite measures we take to protect the intellectual property of our customers or our own, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any unauthorized disclosure of our customers’ proprietary information could subject us to liability for breach of contract, as well as significant damage to our reputation, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our drug and medical device R&D processes involve the use of highly toxic and hazardous materials. Any failure by us to control the use of, restrict adequately the discharge of, or protect our employees from hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. We are subject to national, provincial and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Any failure by us to satisfy our customers’ audits and inspections could harm our reputation and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our customers routinely audit and inspect our facilities, processes and practices to ensure that our services are meeting their internal standards and the regulatory standards they must meet in the drug and medical device development process. To date, we have passed all such audits and inspections; however, we may not be able to in the future, and any failure to meet these audits or inspections to our customers’ satisfaction could significantly harm our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 17 Table of Contents We have limited insurance coverage, and any claims beyond our insurance coverage may result in our incurring substantial costs and a diversion of resources. We maintain property insurance policies covering physical damage to or loss of our equipment, facilities, buildings and their improvements, office furniture and inventory, employer’s liability insurance generally covering death or work injury of employees, product liability insurance covering product liability claims arising from the use, consumption or operation of our small molecular compounds and biologics products, public liability insurance covering certain incidents to third parties that occur on or in the premises of the company, and directors and officers liability insurance. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel. Our insurance coverage, however, may not be sufficient to cover any claim for product liability, damage to our fixed assets or injury to our employees. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business interruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to subscribe for such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation, or any liability or damage to, or caused by, our facilities or our personnel beyond our insurance coverage may result in our incurring substantial costs and a diversion of resources. The lessor of our temporary Suzhou facilities may not possess the required title certificate. We may be required to vacate these premises, causing a disruption to our operations. We entered into a lease agreement with a Suzhou-based company for use of temporary preclinical facilities in Suzhou, which lease expires in 2012. The lessor has not obtained the relevant title certificates and therefore is unable to register the lease agreement. In June 2007, we received a letter from the competent authority in charge of the administrative district where our Suzhou facilities are located, which permits our use of the facilities within the lease term. Under Chinese law, our lease agreement may be subject to challenges from third parties, and as a result, we may be required to vacate these premises and relocate our Suzhou facility. If the lease is so terminated, we believe we can secure comparable alternative premises. Since the build-out of the alternative premises and the moving of equipment take time, a relocation may cause disruption to the services that we intend to carry out on the leased facilities. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may be difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors, including: • the commencement, completion or cancellation of large contracts; • the progress of ongoing contracts; • the delivery schedule of our customers, particularly in relation to our manufacturing services business; • changes in the mix of our revenues from our laboratory and manufacturing services, including the portion of services performed on a fee-for-service or FTE basis; • the timing of and charges associated with completed acquisitions or other events; • changes in the industry operating environment; • changes in government policies or regulations or their enforcement; and • a downturn in general economic conditions in China, the United States or internationally. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. 18 Table of Contents We may need additional capital that we may be unable to obtain in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. For us to grow, remain competitive, develop new services and expand our capacity, we may require additional capital. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital raising activities by healthcare and related companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in China, the United States and elsewhere. Needed financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future capital needs may require us to sell additional equity or debt securities which may result in dilution to our shareholders or introduce covenants which may restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. Our future capital needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based in part on our estimate of the composition of our income and our estimates of the value of our assets, we do not expect to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2007 or in the foreseeable future. However, PFIC status is tested each year and will depend on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets (including, among others, goodwill and equity investments in less than 25% owned entities) from time to time. Because we expect to hold a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which fluctuates, we may be a PFIC for any taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10.E, “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Previously, several material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in WuXi’s internal control over financial reporting were noted. Further, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies have been observed in AppTec’s internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud may be adversely affected. Prior to our initial public offering, we were a private company with a short operating history and limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal control and procedures over financial reporting. In preparing WuXi’s consolidated financial statements in connection with our initial public offering, several material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting were identified, as defined in the standards established by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. While these material weaknesses and significant deficiencies were remedied, our failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the market price of our ordinary shares. 19 Table of Contents In connection with its audit of AppTec’s financial statements for 2007, AppTec’s independent accountants provided to the AppTec audit committee its observations with respect to AppTec’s internal controls over financial reporting. These observations included: (i) numerous adjusting journal entries were recorded, (ii) the need to strengthen AppTec’s accounting resources, particularly in light of its recent growth, (iii) the need to formally document AppTec’s accounting processes and policies, and (iv) the need to assess AppTec’s Sarbanes-Oxley 404 preparedness given its acquisition by a public company. Certain of these observations are considered to be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in AppTec’s internal control over financial reporting. Further, additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in AppTec’s internal controls may be identified in the future. Investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to attest to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the requirements of Section 404. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required under Section 404 to include a report by management assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they may issue an adverse or qualified opinion. Any of these outcomes could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our audited consolidated financial statements, which could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. If we grant employee share options and other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. Our equity incentive plans and other similar types of incentive plans are important in order to attract and retain key personnel. We have granted share options in the past pursuant to an informal plan, and adopted a formal equity incentive plan for our employees in July 2007 for future grants. As a result of the issuance of options under these plans, we have in the past and expect in the future to incur share-based compensation expenses. We account for compensation costs for all share options, including share options granted to our directors and employees, using the fair value method and recognize the expense in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123-R, which may have a material adverse effect on our net income. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of our equity incentive plans. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association includes provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. 20 Table of Contents For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preference shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preference shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preference shares, the market price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. Our directors are divided into three classes with staggered terms of three years each, which means that shareholders can elect or remove only a limited number of our directors in any given year. The length of these terms could present an additional obstacle against the taking of action, such as a merger or other change of control, that could be in the interest of our shareholders. Restrictions on our operations contained in convertible notes may limit the manner that we may conduct our business, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders. On February 9, 2007, we issued $40 million in convertible notes to a consortium of investors. As of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F, $35.9 million in convertible notes (includes principal plus accrued interest on the principle amount of the note) are outstanding. These notes contain restrictions on our major corporate actions that may limit the manner in which we conduct our business, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders. For so long as at least 50% of the initial principal amount of all of the notes is outstanding, we may not take any of the following actions without the prior written consent of a majority in interest of the noteholders: • redeem any of our equity securities if the amount of such redemptions, when aggregated with all other redemptions of equity securities during the period from the date of the issuance of the notes to the date of such redemption, exceeds $2.5 million; • pay, in whole or in part, of any indebtedness for borrowed money, other than all present and future bank and purchase money loans, equipment financings and equipment leasings; or • declare or pay any dividends or other distributions to any equity securities, other than the declaration and payment of (i) a cash dividend in any fiscal year which, when aggregated with all other cash dividends declared during such fiscal year, does not exceed 50% of our audited consolidated net income for our most recently completed fiscal year, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP or (ii) any dividend for which an adjustment is made in accordance with the terms of the notes. We are a Cayman Islands company, and you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some states in the United States, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. 21 Table of Contents Moreover, as a non-U.S. company with foreign private issuer status, we have been exempted from, and you are not provided with the benefits of, some of the NYSE corporate governance requirements, including that: • a majority of our board of directors must be independent directors; • the compensation of our chief executive officer must be determined or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and • our director nominees must be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors. As a result, our independent directors will not have as much influence over our corporate policy as they would if we were not a foreign private issuer. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and the majority of our assets and a large part of our operations are located outside of the United States. In addition, many of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not resident in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Risks Related to Our Industry The outsourcing trend in the preclinical and clinical stages of drug and medical device research and development may decrease, which could slow our growth. The success of our business depends primarily on the number of contracts and the size of the contracts that we may obtain from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Over the past several years, our business has benefited from increased levels of outsourcing by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies of their drug and medical device R&D activities. While industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue for the next several years, a reversal or slowing of this trend could result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of one or more of our expected growth areas and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A reduction in R&D budgets at pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may result in a reduction or discontinued use of our services, which may adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in the R&D budgets of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industry participants could have a significant effect on the demand for our services. R&D budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, consolidation of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in life sciences R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. We may also be adversely affected in future periods by general economic or pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industry downturns. If pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies 22 Table of Contents discontinue or decrease the use of our services due to factors such as a slowdown in the overall U.S. or global economy, our revenues and earnings could be lower than we currently expect and our revenues may decrease or not grow at historical rates. Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries, including potential healthcare reform could decrease the need for the services we provide. Governmental agencies throughout the world, particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the drug and medical device R&D process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, among others, navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services. In recent years, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures have considered various types of healthcare reform to control growing healthcare costs. Similar reform movements have occurred in parts of Europe and Asia. Implementation of healthcare reform legislation that contains costs could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us in the United States and other countries. We are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As our drug and medical device R&D processes generate waste water, toxic and hazardous substances and other industrial wastes, we are required to comply with all national and local regulations in China and the United States regarding protection of the environment. We believe that we are in compliance with present material environmental protection requirements. Because the requirements imposed by environmental laws and regulations may change and more stringent regulations may be adopted in the future, we may be unable to accurately predict the cost of complying with these laws and regulations, which could be substantial. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. In addition, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these hazardous materials cannot be eliminated. If we fail to prevent contamination or injury, we could be liable for any resulting damages, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. The services that we provide our customers are essential to the drug discovery and development process, and are almost universally mandated by law. Some of the services we provide, or intend to provide in the future, involve the use of large and small animals, as well as non-human primates. Certain special interests groups categorically object to the use of animals for valid research purposes. Historically, our core research model activities with small animals have not been the subject of animal rights media attention, and as we expand our service biology offerings into toxicology, we anticipate that we will work extensively with large animals and non-human primates. However, research activities with animals have been the subject of adverse attention, with negative impact on our industry. In connection with our acquisition of AppTec, we expanded our operations into the United States where negative attention from media and animal rights groups is more common than in China. Any negative attention or threats directed against our animal research activities in the future could impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety testing procedures which utilize laboratory animals, as has been advocated by certain groups, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Any failure to comply with existing regulations and industry standards could harm our reputation and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A number of governmental agencies or industry regulatory bodies in China, the United States and Europe, impose strict rules, regulations and industry standards as to how drug and medical device R&D should be conducted which apply to our customers and us. Any failure on our part to comply with existing regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, if we were to treat research animals inhumanely and not in accordance with international standards set out by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, or AAALAC, an accreditation we intend to pursue, AAALAC could revoke any such accreditation and the accuracy of our animal research data could be questioned. AppTec previously received a warning letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, relating to certain violations of FDA regulations, including failures to prepare, validate and follow certain written procedures relating to tissue processing. The FDA subsequently accepted AppTec’s corrective actions as adequate. Any material violation by us of GCP, GLP or cGMP, in each case as determined by the FDA could cause our customers to terminate their contracts with us and thus materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For our client’s future drugs and medical devices to be marketed in the United States, we may need to obtain clearance from the FDA and our operations will need to comply with FDA standards. Any adverse action by the FDA against us would negatively impact on our ability to offer our customer services and harm our business and prospects. As we expand our service offerings, we may need to obtain clearance by the FDA in the event that our customers’ clinical trials reach the stage of filing a New Drug Application, or NDA, with the FDA, to grant permission to market the drug in the United States. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used to manufacture drugs and biologics in the United States must conform to standards that are established by the FDA. The FDA may conduct scheduled periodic inspections of our facilities to monitor our compliance with regulatory standards. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines or take other actions against us or our customers, or we may no longer be able to offer our services to U.S. customers. The resulting corrective measures may be lengthy and costly. As a result, we may be unable to fulfill our contractual obligations. Any adverse action by the FDA would have a material and adverse impact on our reputation and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may or may not obtain clearance from the FDA standards in the event that we are inspected, or maintain such clearance over time. In providing our pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing services, we face health and safety liability and product liability risks. In providing our services in connection with drug development, we face a range of potential liabilities which include risks that disease models and animals infected with diseases for research interests may be harmful, or even lethal, to themselves and humans despite preventive measures we take for the quarantine and handling of animals. We also face product liability risks should the drugs and medical devices we assist in developing and manufacturing be subject to product liability claims. We provide services in the development, testing and manufacturing of drugs and medical devices that may ultimately be used by humans, including biologic products to be tested in human clinical trials, although we do not commercially market or sell the products to end users. If any of these drugs or medical devices harm people, we may be subject to litigation and may be required to pay damages to those persons. For example, AppTec was recently sued in the U.S. in an action where the plaintiff alleges she contracted the Hepatitis C virus from a dental implant that she received sometime prior to January 9, 2006. The plaintiff alleges that three manufacturer-distributor defendants negligently designed, manufactured and tested the dental implant at issue and also alleges that AppTec negligently failed to test the implant for the 24 Table of Contents presence of the Hepatitis C virus and negligently failed to warn the plaintiff of such alleged presence. AppTec believes they have substantial defenses to the action and their being named as defendant in the suit is without merit. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, our insurance coverage may be inadequate or may become unavailable on terms acceptable to us. New technologies or methodologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing industry that could reduce demand for some of our services. The global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing industry is constantly evolving, and we must keep pace with new technologies and methodologies in the industry to maintain our competitive position. For example, a new drug discovery method, known as “genome-to-drug-lead” approach, in which chemicals can be virtually screened against computer-predicted protein targets, could offer a solution to reduce labor requirements for chemists who experimentally search for drug leads, one of the most significant obstacles to drug discovery. The method may also allow chemists to better exploit the extensive availability of drug targets at the gene level, and ultimately improve the success of moving discoveries from the laboratory to actual patients. As a result, we must continue to invest significant human and capital resources in R&D to enhance our technology and our existing services and introduce new services utilizing advanced technologies that customers will use. However, we may not be successful in adapting to or commercializing these new technologies if developed. New technologies could decrease the need for our existing technologies, and we may not be able to develop new service or technologies effectively or in a timely manner. Our failure to develop, enhance or adapt, to new technologies and methodologies could significantly reduce demand for our services and harm our business and prospects. Risks Relating to China The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Before January 1, 2008, China had a dual tax system that contained one set of tax rules for PRC domestic enterprises and one for foreign investment enterprises, or FIEs. Though both domestic enterprises and FIEs were subject to the same income tax rate of 33%, there were various preferential tax treatments that were generally only available to FIEs, which results in the effective tax rates of FIEs being generally lower than those of domestic enterprises. Two of our PRC subsidiaries were FIEs that were eligible to receive certain preferential tax treatments, in the form of reduced tax rates and/or tax holidays pursuant to certain PRC tax laws and regulations effective before January 1, 2008. WXAT was an FIE engaged in manufacturing businesses with a business term of over ten years and registered in the Wuxi Taihu National Tourist Resort Zone, and as such its head office was granted a two-year exemption from enterprise income tax beginning from its first profitable year and a 12% enterprise income tax rate for the subsequent three years followed by a three-year 12% tax rate so long as it continues to qualify as an “advanced technology enterprise with foreign investment.” The Shanghai branch of WXAT located in Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone was granted to a two-year exemption from enterprise income tax beginning from its first profitable year and a 7.5% enterprise income tax rate for the subsequent three years followed by a three-year 10% tax rate so long as WXAT continues to qualify as an “advanced technology enterprise with foreign investment.” WASH was an FIE engaged in manufacturing businesses with a business term of over ten years and located in Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, and as such it was granted a 25 Table of Contents two-year exemption from enterprise income tax beginning from its first profitable year and a 7.5% enterprise income tax rate for the subsequent three years. China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The New EIT Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises under its predecessor. The New EIT Law, however, (i) reduces the statutory rate of enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. Therefore, subject to the transitional phase-out rules, WXAT and WASH are still entitled to their preferential tax treatment. As enterprises established prior to the promulgation of the New EIT Law, STA, WATJ and WASZ are entitled to apply for the tax preferential treatment under the then effective tax laws, which shall also be subject to the transitional phase-out rules. In addition, based on the new tax law, an enterprise that is entitled to preferential treatment in the form of enterprise income tax reduction or a tax holiday exemption, but has not been profitable and, therefore, has not enjoyed such preferential treatment, would have to begin its tax holiday exemption in the same year that the new tax law goes into effect, i.e., 2008. As such, certain subsidiaries will begin their tax holiday exemption in 2008 even if they are not yet cumulatively profitable at that time. The New EIT Law and its implementing rules permit certain “high-technology enterprises” to enjoy a reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate, although they do not specify the qualification criteria. Pending promulgation of detailed qualification criteria, we cannot assure you that WXAT and WASH will qualify as high-technology enterprises under the New EIT Law. Preferential tax treatments granted to our subsidiaries by the local governmental authorities are subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments currently available to us and our wholly owned subsidiaries will cause our effective tax rate to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under China’s New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. This classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under China’s New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management bodies as “management bodies that exercises substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Currently no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available, therefore it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends income between qualified resident enterprises is exempted income, it is not clear what is considered a qualified resident enterprise under the New EIT Law. Finally, guidance recently issued by PRC tax authorities suggests that dividends paid by us to our non-PRC shareholders will be subject to a 10% withholding tax. Similarly, these unfavorable consequences could apply to our BVI holding company if it is classified as a PRC resident enterprise. The discontinuation of any of the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. Since inception, we have enjoyed either exemptions or subsidies with respect to income tax and sales tax. Our eligibility to receive these financial incentives requires that we continue to qualify for these financial incentives, which is subject to the discretion of the central government or relevant local government authorities, 26 Table of Contents who could determine at any time to immediately eliminate or reduce these financial incentives, generally with prospective effect. Since our receipt of the financial incentives is subject to periodic time lags and inconsistent government practice, for so long as we continue to receive these financial incentives, our net income in a particular period may be higher or lower relative to other periods based on the potential changes in these financial incentives in addition to any business or operating related factors we may otherwise experience. For example, we expect downward pressure on future margins on goods manufactured for export due to changes in China’s VAT system reducing the potential VAT credits on certain categories of goods from 13% to 5%. Fluctuations in exchange rates have resulted and are expected to continue to result in foreign currency exchange losses and negatively impact our profitability. In 2007, approximately 94.5% of our net revenues were generated from sales denominated in U.S. dollars, and a significant portion of our operating costs and expenses were denominated in Renminbi. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Renminbi affect the relative purchasing power of our revenue and our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar will affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. Since July 2005, the Renminbi is no longer pegged to the U.S. dollar. As a result, from July 21, 2005 to June 12, 2008, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 16.5% against the U.S. dollar. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.5% per day and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue, which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We periodically purchase derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward contracts to manage our exposure to U.S. dollar—Renminbi currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Changes in China’s economic, political and social condition could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We conduct a significant portion of our business operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage, but also to control, economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations applicable to us. Furthermore, the PRC government, through the People’s Bank of China, continues to implement interest rate increases to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 27 Table of Contents The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries are foreign-invested enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. These laws and regulations change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. In addition, some regulatory requirements issued by certain PRC government authorities may not be consistently applied by other government authorities (including local government authorities), thus making strict compliance with all regulatory requirements impractical, or in some circumstances, impossible. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. By way of further example, although required by PRC law, many foreign-invested enterprises, including our PRC subsidiaries, have not historically obtained approvals from the National Development and Reform Commission or its counterparts, or NDRC, before receiving the approval from the Ministry of Commerce or its counterparts for their establishment. The NDRC has recently reiterated its position that the establishment of foreign-invested enterprises is subject to the NDRC’s approval, in addition to any other required PRC government approvals, but the legal consequence for failure to obtain the NDRC approval by those foreign-invested enterprises, including our PRC subsidiaries, is not prescribed under the current PRC law. As a result, these uncertainties together with any development or interpretation of the PRC law that is adverse to us could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated a regulation that became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, has some provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals shall obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. We completed the initial listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE in August 2007. We did not seek CSRC approval in connection with our initial public offering. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, advised us that because we completed our restructuring for the initial public offering before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it was not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE did not require CSRC approval. A copy of Commerce & Finance Law Offices’ legal opinion regarding this PRC regulation is filed as an exhibit to our registration statement on Form F-1 in connection with our initial public offering, which is available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. 28 Table of Contents If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for the initial public offering, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. If the CSRC later requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to complete any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from distributing profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, has promulgated several regulations that require PRC residents to register with and/or obtain approvals from branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. The SAFE regulation issued in October 2005, known as Notice 75, requires: (i) PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any offshore company, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company”, for the purpose of acquiring any assets or equities of PRC companies and raising funds from overseas; (ii) any PRC resident who is a shareholder of an offshore special purpose company to amend such shareholder’s SAFE registration with the relevant SAFE branch with respect to such company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China, and (iii) registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in such companies. In November 2005 and May 2007, SAFE promulgated certain implementing rules with respect to Notice 75, known as the Notice 75 Implementing Rules. We previously notified and urged our shareholders who are PRC residents to make the necessary registrations and filings as required under these regulations, and these shareholders have made efforts to register their investments in our company with the local SAFE branch in Wuxi, China. However, the local SAFE branch in Wuxi declared that registrations under Notice 75 were not required from these shareholders. As Notice 75 Implementing Rules are relatively new, it remains unclear how Notice 75, and any future PRC legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted and implemented by the relevant PRC government authorities, and whether the local SAFE branch in Wuxi correctly interpreted Notice 75 as to its application to certain of our shareholders. Therefore, we cannot assure you that all relevant shareholders have made and will make and obtain all applicable registrations or filings required by these regulations or other related legislation. Our PRC counsel has advised us that if any of our PRC shareholders fails to make any required SAFE registrations and amendments thereto, our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries may be limited, and our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us. Moreover, the failure to comply with SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiaries to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If 29 Table of Contents any of our five subsidiaries in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by the subsidiary only out of its retained earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, each of our operating subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund specific reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. A wholly foreign owned enterprise is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits of the preceding year as its reserve funds. It may stop contributing if the aggregate amount of the reserve funds has already accounted for more than 50% of its registered capital. Moreover, it may, upon a board resolution, set aside certain amount from its after-tax profits of the preceding year as bonus and welfare funds for staff and workers. An equity joint venture enterprise is required to set aside reserve funds, bonus and welfare funds for staff and workers and development funds, percentage of which shall be determined by the board. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, each of the operating subsidiaries in China is restricted in its ability to transfer a portion of its net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. As a result of PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets, either in the form of dividends, loans, or advances. As of December 31, 2007, the restricted portion of their net assets totaled $71.2 million, which is composed of the registered capital and the statutory reserve of the PRC subsidiaries. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries in China to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, each of our subsidiaries in China is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from SAFE or its local counterparts by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the PRC government may take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our subsidiaries under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with, PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if one subsidiary borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts, and if we finance such subsidiary by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian flu in China, or similar adverse public health developments, may severely disrupt our business and operations. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt businesses and the national economy of China and other countries where we do business. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. However, a number of isolated new cases of SARS were subsequently reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. Moreover, some Asian countries, including China, have recently experienced incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that avian flu may have on our business. In particular, any future outbreak of SARS, avian flu or similar adverse public health developments may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and may adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, an outbreak may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, any future outbreak of SARS, avian flu or similar adverse public health 30 Table of Contents developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Relating to Our ADSs The trading prices of our ADSs have been and are likely to continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs have been and are likely to continue to be volatile. Since our initial public offering on August 9, 2007, the daily closing trading price of our ADSs on the NYSE has ranged from $17.20 to $41.28, and the last reported trading price on June 12, 2008 was $17.20 per ADS. The trading prices of our ADSs could fluctuate widely in response to factors beyond our control. In particular, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the trading price and volumes of our ADSs. Recently, a number of PRC companies have listed or are in the process of preparing to list their securities, in the United States. Some of these listed companies have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines after their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these PRC companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect overall investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the trading price and volume of our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. In particular, variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow and announcements of new investments and cooperation arrangements or acquisitions could cause the trading price and volume of our ADSs to change substantially. Following periods of volatility in the trading price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we become involved in a class action suit, it could divert our senior management’s attention, and, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Recent volatility in global capital markets could lead to substantial losses to investors. On January 21 and 22, 2008, multiple exchanges in the United States and other countries and regions, including China, experienced sharp declines in response to the growing credit market crisis and a potential recession in the United States. Global capital markets volatility may affect overall investor sentiment towards our ADSs, which could also negatively affect the trading prices for our ADSs. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, holders of our ADSs may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit the holder to withdraw the ordinary shares to allow the holder to cast his or her vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to the holder or carry out the holder’s voting instructions in a timely manner. We make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to holders of our ADSs in a timely manner, but holders may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that the holder can instruct the depositary to vote his or her shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any 31 Table of Contents failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise the right to vote and may lack recourse if the holder’s ordinary shares are not voted as requested. Holders of ADSs may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to them. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay holders of our ADSs cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Holders of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares the holder’s ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that holders of our ADSs may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to the holder. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of the holder’s ADSs. We intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business, and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our ordinary shares, or indirectly on our ADSs, in the foreseeable future. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. To the extent holders of our ADSs hold certificated ADRs rather than holding ADSs through their bank, broker or other nominee through the Depositary Trust Company, the ADSs represented by ADRs will be transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and will close its books on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of or circumstance permitted by the deposit agreement. 32 Table of Contents 