ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following factors, as well as other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business Our results of operations and financial condition have been and could in the future be materially adversely impacted by the economic downturn. The economy has experienced a severe and prolonged downturn as a result of the deterioration in the capital markets and related financial crisis which has adversely impacted our customer base, which is primarily composed of companies in the automotive repair and manufacturing industries. The overall levels of demand for our parts cleaning products and supplies and other services are influenced by fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. and the regional economic conditions affecting our branches. Many of our customers are heavily dependent on general economic conditions, including the availability of affordable energy sources, employment levels, interest rates, financial credit availability, consumer confidence and housing demand. Downturns in these general economic conditions can significantly affect the business of our customers, which in turn affects demand, volumes, pricing and operating margins for our services and products. Both our customers and suppliers have felt the impact of the economic downturn. During the recent economic downturn, our customers sought ways to reduce their costs which in turn have reduced their demand for our services. Our customers and suppliers may face severe financial difficulties causing them to cease some or all their business operations or to reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future. We may have accounts receivables owing from customers who may not be able to honor their obligations to us. Failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic and financial markets conditions may cause our suppliers to be unable to provide materials and components to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for our amounts owing them or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. Such changes could adversely affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial market conditions, we could be adversely affected. In addition, a substantial or prolonged material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition due to the recent economic downturn could affect our ability to satisfy the financial covenants in our bank credit facility, which could result in our having to seek amendments or waivers from our lenders to avoid the termination of commitments and/or the acceleration of the maturity of amounts that may be outstanding under our bank credit facility. The cost of our obtaining an amendment or waiver could be significant, and could substantially increase our cost of borrowing over the remaining term of our bank credit facility. Further, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain an amendment or waiver. If our lenders were unwilling to enter into an amendment or provide a waiver, all amounts outstanding under our bank credit facility would become immediately due and payable Our operating margins and profitability may be negatively impacted by the volatility in crude oil, solvent, fuel and energy costs. Our business is dependent on the widespread availability of certain crude oil products such as solvent and fuel for operating our fleet of trucks. Changes and volatility in the price of crude can adversely impact the prices for these products and therefore affect our operating results. The price and supply of fuel and solvent is unpredictable 19 and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Increased costs of crude can significantly increase our operating costs. Because solvent is a product of crude oil, we are also susceptible to increases in solvent costs when crude oil costs increase. The market price of crude has been volatile and rose substantially from 2004 to 2008 before falling significantly in late 2008. During this period of rising crude costs, we experienced increases in the cost of fuel, solvent and other petroleum-based products. We have in the past been able mitigate the increased fuel and solvent costs through the imposition of price increases and energy surcharges on our invoices to customers. However, because of the competitive nature of the industry, the recent economic downturn and the terms of customer contracts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on future price increases. Due to political instability in oil-producing countries, oil prices could increase significantly in the future. A significant increase in fuel or solvent costs could lower our operating margins and negatively impact our profitability. We currently do not use financial instruments to hedge against fluctuations in oil, solvent or energy prices. If this volatility continues, our operating results could also be volatile and adversely affected. In addition, a significant portion of our inventory consists of new and used solvents. Volatility in the price of crude oil has in the past impacted and can significantly impact in the future the value of this inventory and our operating margins. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we generally experienced a sharp decrease in the cost of crude oil and related commodities which caused a decline in the market value of our solvent and used oil inventory and we recorded a $2.8 million non-cash inventory impairment charge on that portion of the Company’s solvent and oil inventory that is held for sale, reflecting the lower market value of such inventory. Additionally, we recorded $1.7 million in additional expense to reflect the lower value of the solvent inventory held for use in the Company’s service programs. Further, because we apply a first-in first-out accounting method, volatility in solvent and oil prices can significantly impact our operating margins. If volatility in the price of crude oil continues, our operating results will be difficult to predict and could be adversely affected. Moreover, the impact of crude oil price volatility on our business and financial results will likely increase when we enter the used oil re-refining industry. We may not be able to build and operate a used oil re-refinery as planned and it may cost more than anticipated which could harm our business. We are currently constructing a used oil re-refinery. The construction of the re-refinery is in its early stages and we may be unable to construct the re-refinery on the current timetable or as currently contemplated. There can be no assurance that we will develop a commercially successful re-refinery or that unforeseen market conditions will not adversely impact the construction, operation or profitability of the re-refinery. The development of a used oil re-refinery is a new business for our company and requires a different employee base and skill set than that required for our current business. These new skill sets include chemical engineering, design and operational management of the re-refinery. Although our management team has operated re-refineries for other companies, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient expertise to develop a re-refinery within the budget contemplated or that it will operate within the performance parameters currently contemplated for the re-refinery. Further, the development of the re-refinery will require time and resources, including the attention of our management, which could divert our management from other activities and may impair the operation of our existing business. The construction of the re-refinery could take longer than expected, cost more than expected or not perform as anticipated. For example, the use of subcontractors or the costs of materials such as steel to construct the facility may be more expensive than we anticipate leading to project cost overruns. In addition, the construction and operation of a re-refinery is highly regulated. We have received all the major permits for the construction and operation of the re-refinery; however, the permit process is ongoing. We may be subject to delays of the project if we are unable to obtain permits on terms acceptable to us. 20 We currently expect that the development and construction of the re-refinery will cost approximately $40 million. In addition, during our development of the re-refinery, we expect to expand our used oil collection services through our existing branch network and potential acquisitions in preparation for servicing the re-refinery. We incurred approximately $1.0 million of net expense during fiscal 2010 and we estimate that during fiscal 2011 we will incur an additional $2.0 million of net expense related to this roll out. We currently expect to use existing cash to pay a portion of the costs needed to develop the re-refinery and expect to obtain the remaining funds needed from borrowings under our credit agreement. If we are not able to borrow sufficient funds or obtain other sources to finance the re-refinery, we may not be able to complete the re-refinery which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we secure adequate financing, our investments in this project may limit our ability to pursue other opportunities in the future. The used oil re-refinery may not generate the operating results that we anticipate and may lead to greater volatility in our revenue and earnings. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits from developing and operating a used oil re-refinery. If we complete the construction of the re-refinery, the subsequent operation of the plant creates different and additional risks compared to our historic service businesses. We may experience difficulty securing sufficient used oil feedstock to run the re-refinery at anticipated rates and have to pay more for the feedstock or reduce our operating rates. We may also have difficulty selling all of the lubricating base oil that we produce. Our costs for used oil feedstock and the prices that we can sell the lubricating base oil and byproducts made by the re-refinery are determined by competitive market factors including the world price of crude oil, prices for natural gas, and the lubricating oil prices posted by major refiners, none of which we control. In addition, we may experience increased downward pricing pressure when compared to suppliers of virgin lubricating base oil, which has historically sold at a premium to re-refined lubricating base oil. Our estimates of revenue and profitability for the re-refinery could prove to be erroneous or could be impacted by changes in these market factors. In particular, if crude oil prices come down, we expect that we would experience a reduction in our margins from used oil re-refining as well as potential inventory charges related to material held for processing or sale. Even if prices decrease, the costs required to collect and process the used oil may not decrease. If crude oil prices rise, we expect that the feedstock prices for our re-refinery would also increase. If the prices we charge for our re-refined oil and the costs to collect and re-refine used oil do not move together or in similar magnitudes, our profitability may be materially and negatively impacted. Any volatility in the price of crude oil could also cause volatility in our operating results. Our operation of a re-refinery exposes us to risks related to the potential adverse environmental impact of a spill or other release at the re-refinery, the loss of permits, the risk of explosion or fire or other hazards, the risk of injury to our employees or others, as well as the negative publicity due to public concerns regarding our operation. While these risks are in some respects similar to risks that we have experienced in our traditional service businesses, the magnitude of exposure may be greater due to the nature of the used oil re-refining industry and the greater volumes, temperatures and pressures involved. While we may maintain some insurance that covers portions of these exposures, in many cases the risks are uninsurable or we will not choose to procure insurance at levels that will cover any potential exposure. Any problem or perception of a problem with our re-refining project could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and earnings and lead to a loss of stockholder and/or research analyst confidence in our business and could result in a sudden and significant reduction in our stock price. Further consolidation and/or declines in the U.S. automotive repair and U.S. manufacturing industries could cause us to experience lower sales volumes which could materially affect our growth and financial performance. Our business relies on continued demand for our parts cleaning and waste management services in the U.S. automotive repair and U.S. manufacturing industries, which may suffer from declining market size and number of locations, due in part to the uncertainty of the continued economic recovery, the potential bankruptcies of U.S. automobile manufacturers, international competition and consolidation in U.S. markets. Industry trends 21 affecting our customers, including the continued trend of U.S. manufacturing moving offshore and the influx of inexpensive imported automotive aftermarket products, has caused our customers’ business to contract which could reduce the demand for our parts cleaning and other services and products and have a material adverse impact on our business. As a result, we may not be able to continue to grow our business by increasing penetration into the industries which we serve, and our ability to retain our market share and base of sales could become more difficult. We conduct business in an industry that is highly regulated by environmental, health and safety, transportation, and employment laws and regulations. If we do not comply with these laws and regulations, we may be subject to involuntary shutdowns and/or significant financial penalties and negative response from our customers. The sale, handling, transportation, storage, recycling and disposal of industrial and hazardous waste, including solvents used in parts cleaners, used oil and containerized waste are highly regulated by various legislative bodies and governmental agencies at the federal, state and local levels, including the EPA, the Department of Transportation, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA. Any failure by us to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures for equipment upgrades, fines, penalties, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs and/or involuntary temporary or permanent discontinuance of our operations. There currently exists a high level of public concern over hazardous waste operations, including with respect to the siting and operation of transfer, processing, storage and disposal facilities. Part of our business strategy described above is to increase our re-refining capacity through the construction of a new facility and by adding new branch operations. Each of these efforts would require us to undergo an intensive regulatory approval process that could be time consuming and impact the success of our business strategy. Zoning, permit and licensing applications and proceedings, as well as regulatory enforcement proceedings, are all matters open to public scrutiny and comment. Accordingly, from time to time we have been, and may in the future be, subject to public opposition and publicity which may damage our reputation and delay or limit the expansion and development of our operating properties or impair our ability to renew existing permits which could prevent us from implementing our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If current environmental laws and regulations are changed, we may be forced to significantly alter our business model, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. A change in any of the environmental, employment, health and safety laws and regulations under which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. For example, the EPA currently excludes waste used as an ingredient in the production of a product from being defined as hazardous waste. Our product reuse program for parts cleaning operates under this exclusion and provides an advantage by excluding our customers’ used solvent from being regulated as hazardous waste. Similarly, under our non-hazardous program for parts cleaning, we provide our customers with a different solvent that has a higher flashpoint than traditional solvents. The resulting used solvent is not considered to be hazardous waste so long as our customers ensure that no inappropriate contaminants were contributed to the used solvent. If the EPA were to broaden the definition of hazardous waste to include used solvents generated by our customers under our product reuse and/or non-hazardous programs for parts cleaning, the value of our offerings may be significantly reduced which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Examples of changes by the EPA that could adversely affect our services include, but are not limited to, the following: • elimination of the reuse exception to the definition of hazardous waste; • increase in the minimum flashpoint threshold at which solvent becomes included in the definition of hazardous waste; • increased requirements to test the used solvent that we pick up from our customers for the presence of toxic or more flammable contaminants; and 22 • adoption of regulations similar to those enacted in some California air quality districts that prohibit the use of the solvents of the type that we sell for parts cleaning operations. In addition, new laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. We are not able to predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations or changes in the ways that such laws or regulations are administered, interpreted or enforced. The requirements to be met, as well as the technology and length of time available to meet those requirements, continue to develop and change. To the extent that our costs associated with meeting any of these requirements are substantial and cannot adequately be passed through to our customers, our earnings and cash flows could suffer. We face intense competition in the industrial and hazardous waste services industries. The markets for parts cleaning, containerized waste management, used oil collection, and vacuum truck services are intensely competitive. While numerous small companies provide these services, Safety-Kleen, our largest competitor, has held substantial market share in the parts cleaning industry for the last four decades and has developed a significant market share in used oil services, including used oil re-refining, and containerized waste management. Safety-Kleen and some of our other competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources and greater name recognition than us. Our business growth, financial performance and prospects will be adversely affected if we cannot gain market share from these competitors, or if any of our competitors develop products or services superior to those offered by us. We could lose a significant number of customers if Safety-Kleen, or other competitors, materially lower their prices, improve service quality or develop more competitive product and service offerings. In addition, companies involved in the waste management industry, including waste hauling, separation, recovery and recycling, may have the expertise, access to customers and financial resources that would encourage them to develop and market services and products competitive with those offered by us. We also face competition from alternative services that provide similar benefits to our customers as those provided by us. In addition, new technology regarding the treatment and recycling of used solvent and used oil may lead to functionally equivalent or superior products becoming available, which may decrease the demand for our services and products or cause our products and services to become obsolete. We could be subject to involuntary shutdowns or be required to pay significant monetary damages if we are found to be a responsible party for the improper handling or the release of hazardous substances. As a company engaged in the sale, handling, transportation, storage, recycling and disposal of materials that are or may be classified as hazardous by federal, state, or other regulatory agencies, we face risks of liability for environmental contamination. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA”), and similar state laws impose strict liability on current or former owners and operators of facilities that release hazardous substances into the environment, as well as on the businesses that generate those substances or transport them to the facilities. As a potentially responsible party, or PRP, we may be liable under CERCLA for substantial investigation and cleanup costs even if we operate our business properly and comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several, which means that if we were found to be a business with responsibility for a particular CERCLA site, we could be required to pay the entire cost of the investigation and cleanup, even though we were not the party responsible for the release of the hazardous substance and even though other companies might also be liable. Even if we were able to identify who the other responsible parties might be, we may not be able to compel them to contribute to the remediation costs, or they might be insolvent or unable to contribute due to lack of financial resources. Our facilities and the facilities of our customers and third party contractors may have generated, used, handled and/or disposed of hazardous substances and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations where materials from our operations were disposed of, 23 which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could materially reduce our profits. Our pollution liability insurance excludes certain liabilities under CERCLA. Thus, if we were to incur liability under CERCLA that was not covered by our insurance and if we could not identify other parties responsible under the law whom we are able to compel to contribute to the liabilities, the cost to us could be substantial and could impair our profitability, reduce our liquidity and have a material adverse effect on our business. Although our customer service agreements typically provide that the customer is responsible for ensuring that only appropriate materials are disposed of, we could be exposed to third party claims if customers dispose of improper waste, and we might not be successful in recovering our damages from those customers. In addition, new services or products offered by us (such as the re-refining of used oil) could expose us to further environmental liabilities for which we have no historical experience and cannot estimate our potential exposure to liabilities. Our fixed cost structure may result in a greater loss or reduced earnings. Our network, including our facilities, fleet and personnel, subjects us to fixed costs, which makes our margins and earnings sensitive to changes in revenues. In periods of declining demand, our fixed cost structure may limit our ability to cut costs, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage to firms with lower cost structures, or may result in reduced operating margins and operating losses. We carry inventory of used solvents generated by customers participating in our product reuse program for parts cleaning. Our inventory of used solvent has fluctuated and it may continue to fluctuate. If we are unable to sell our reuse inventory, we may be required to take a charge to inventory and we may incur additional costs for storage and/or disposal which would adversely impact our operating results. In addition, while we sold enough used solvent to satisfy speculative accumulation requirements of the EPA for fiscal 2010 and prior years, we may not in future years. Our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives is subject to our ability to expand our non-hazardous programs for parts cleaning. For our business to grow we may need to expand our non-hazardous program for parts cleaning. Unlike used solvent generated by customers participating in our product reuse program for parts cleaning (which must be resold for reuse as an ingredient), used solvent generated by customers participating in our non-hazardous program for parts cleaning can be recycled by third party recyclers or by us. We have constructed a solvent recycling system at our Indianapolis hub to recycle used solvent generated by customers participating in our non-hazardous program and we may also undertake similar projects in the future. Any unanticipated costs in operating our solvent recycling system could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and require us to seek an alternative means to recycle or dispose of used solvent. The operation of our solvent recycling system may be considered inherently dangerous and injury to individuals or property may occur, potentially subjecting us to lawsuits. If we fail to operate our solvent recycling system as anticipated, our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time, or offer new product lines which may not be profitable and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the service of key individuals, the loss of whom could materially harm our business. Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees, including Joseph Chalhoub, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Gregory Ray, our Chief Financial Officer, Vice President, Business Management and Secretary, John Lucks, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Tom Hillstrom, our Vice President of Operations and Glenn Casbourne, our Vice President of Engineering. These 24 individuals possess extensive experience in our markets and are critical to the operation and growth of our business. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. Moreover, the market for qualified individuals is highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to succeed members of our management team or other key employees, should the need arise. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our named executive officers. One of our key growth strategies is our construction of a used oil re-refinery. Given their past experience in the development of re-refinery facilities in the U.S., the retention of the members of our management team is particularly critical to our ability to develop the re-refinery as planned. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely impact our ability to compete and operate the re-refinery. In addition, our operations and growth strategy rely on the expansion of our business through the creation and growth of new and existing branches. In order for us to create and grow new and existing branches properly, we must continually recruit and train a pool of hardworking and motivated sales & service representatives, or SSRs, to develop new customer leads, as well as support our existing customer base. If we are not able to retain and recruit a sufficient number of SSRs, or we experience an increase in the turnover of existing SSRs, we may not be able to support the continued growth of our business, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. We operate our business through many locations, and if we are unable to effectively oversee all of these locations, our business reputation and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Because we rely on our extended network of 62 branch locations to operate independently to carry out our business plan, we are subject to risks related to our ability to oversee and control information reporting from these locations. If in the future we are unable to effectively oversee and control information reporting from our branch locations, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected, we could fail to comply with environmental regulations, we could lose customers, and our business could be materially adversely affected. Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience. We maintain insurance coverage, but these policies do not cover all of our potential losses, costs or liabilities. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage which would significantly affect our financial performance. For example, our pollution legal liability insurance excludes costs related to fines, penalties or assessments. Our insurance policies also have deductibles and self-retention limits that could expose us to significant financial expense. Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business requires that we maintain various types of insurance. If such insurance is not available or not available on economically acceptable terms, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to potential liability claims relating to our services and products. We offer our customers specific guarantees that we will be responsible for all expenses resulting from any spill that occurs while we are transporting, processing or disposing of customers’ used solvent and other waste. Accordingly, we may be required to indemnify our customers for any liability under CERCLA or other environmental, employment, health and safety laws and regulations. We may also be exposed to product liability claims by our customers, users of our parts cleaning products or third parties claiming damages stemming from the mechanical failure of parts cleaned with solvents and/or equipment provided by us. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, if our insurance coverage proves inadequate or adequate insurance becomes unreasonably costly or otherwise unavailable, future claims may not be fully insured. An uninsured or partially 25 insured successful claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our focus on small business customers causes us to be subject to the trends and downturns impacting small businesses, which could adversely affect our business. Our customer base is primarily composed of small companies in the automotive repair and manufacturing industries. The high concentration of our customers that are small businesses exposes us to some of the broad characteristics of small businesses across the U.S. Small businesses start, close, relocate, and get purchased or sold frequently. In addition, small businesses tend to be more significantly affected by economic recessions than larger businesses. This leads to a certain amount of ongoing turnover in the market. As a result, we must continually identify new customers and expand our business with existing customers in order to sustain our growth. If we experience a rise in levels of customer turnover, it may have a negative impact on the profitability of our business. We obtain services from our largest stockholder, The Heritage Group (“Heritage”) and its affiliates, which we refer to collectively herein as Heritage, and our inability to replace these services in the future on economically acceptable terms could materially adversely affect our business. We obtain certain services from Heritage including disposal and product analytical services and workers’ compensation insurance. Heritage beneficially owned 31.5% of our outstanding common stock as of January 1, 2011. If the services that we receive from Heritage become unavailable from Heritage, to the extent that we are unable to negotiate replacements of these services with similar terms, we could experience increases in our expenses. Litigation related to personal injury from exposure to solvents and the operation of our business may result in significant liabilities and affect our profitability. We have been and in the future may be involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury predominantly as a result of exposure to hazardous chemicals that are a part of the solvents that we provide. In addition, the hazards and risks associated with the use, transport, storage, and handling and disposal of our customers’ waste by us and our customers (such as fires, natural disasters, explosions and accidents) and our customers’ improper or negligent use or misuse of solvent to clean parts may also expose us to personal injury claims, property damage claims and/or products liability claims from our customers or third parties. As protection against such claims and operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits, and we may be held liable for significant personal injury or damage to property or third parties, or other losses, that are not fully covered by our insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on third parties to supply us with the necessary components and materials to service our customers. We are also dependent on third party transport, including rail, recycling and disposal contractors. In the operation of our business, we supply a large amount of virgin solvent and parts cleaning equipment to our customers. We do not maintain extensive inventories for most of these products. If we become unable to obtain, or experience delays in the transportation of, adequate supplies and components in a timely and/or cost-effective manner, we may be unable to adequately provide sufficient quantities of our services and products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We, and our third party transporters, ship used oil and containerized waste collected from our customers to a number of third party recycling and disposal facilities, including incinerators, landfill operators and waste-to-energy 26 facilities. We generally do not have long-term fixed price contracts with our third party contractors, and if we are forced to seek alternative vendors to handle our third party recycling and disposal activities, we may not be able to find alternatives without significant additional expenses, or at all, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, we could be subject to significant environmental liabilities from claims relating to the transport, storage, processing, recycling and disposal of our customers’ waste by our third party contractors and their subcontractors. A system failure could delay or interrupt our ability to provide services and products and could increase our costs and reduce our sales. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to support our branch infrastructure. Our business operates through four hubs that service our 62 local branches. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in our operations could result in the loss of customers. To date, we have not experienced any significant interruptions or delays which have affected our ability to provide services and products to our customers. The occurrence of a natural disaster, technological, transportation or operational disruption or other unanticipated problem could cause interruptions in the services we provide and impair our ability to generate sales and achieve profits. We may be unable to manage our growth. In our first ten eleven years of operation, sales have increased at a compound annual growth rate of 23.5% from 1999 to 2010 although we experienced a 9% decrease in our sales from 2008 to 2009. Our growth to date has placed and may continue to place significant strain on our management and its operational and financial resources. We anticipate that continued growth, if any, as well as our plans to enter the used oil re-refining industry, will require us to recruit, hire and retain new managerial, finance, sales, marketing and operational personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in recruiting, hiring or retaining those personnel. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage our future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to maintain and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. If we continue to grow, we cannot be certain that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations. Expansion of our business may result in unanticipated adverse consequences. In the future, we may seek to grow our business by investing in new or existing facilities, making acquisitions, entering into partnerships and joint ventures or constructing new facilities such as the used oil re-refinery. Acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures, investments or construction projects may require significant managerial attention, which may divert our management from our other activities and may impair the operation of our existing businesses. Any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities or the development of a new business line could entail a number of additional risks, including: • the failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses or facilities into our operations; • the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; • loss of key personnel of the acquired business or facility; • exposure to unanticipated liabilities; and • the failure to realize efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. As a result of these and other factors, including the general economic risk associated with the industries in which we operate, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits from any recent or future acquisitions, new facility developments, partnerships, joint ventures or other investments. 27 Our business is subject to inclement weather and this may have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. A significant portion of our business includes periodic service visits to our customers. Inclement weather in the geographic areas in which our branches operate may result in a significant number of cancelled service visits, which may result in lost sales and profits. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately. We rely upon know-how and technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. We rely, to a significant extent, on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology, and such agreements may not adequately protect us. Our competitors could gain knowledge of our know-how or trade secrets, either directly or through one or more of our employees or other third parties. Although we do not regard any single trade secret or component of our proprietary know-how to be material to our operations as a whole, if one or more of our competitors can use or independently develop such know-how or trade secrets, our market share, sales volumes and profit margins could be adversely affected. In the event we become involved in defending or pursuing intellectual property litigation, such action may increase our costs and divert management’s time and attention from our business. In addition, any potential intellectual property litigation could force us to take specific actions, including, but not limited to, the following: • cease selling products that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign those products that use infringing intellectual property. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “Greenhouse Gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our services. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases (“GHGs”), present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has adopted two sets of regulations under the existing Clean Air Act that would require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing GHG reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to monitor emissions and to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. 28 Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our shares of common stock may be volatile. The trading price of shares of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. In particular, it is possible that our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, including the results of our planned entry into the used oil re-refining industry, and, as a result of these and other factors, the price of our common stock may decline. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in shares of our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • variations in our operating results, including variations due to changes in the price of crude oil; • announcements by us, our competitors or others of significant business developments, changes in customer relationships, acquisitions or expansion plans; • analysts’ earnings estimates, ratings and research reports; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • speculation in the press; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as sales promotions or acquisitions; • actions by our large stockholders or by institutional and other stockholders; • conditions in the industrial and hazardous waste services industry as a whole and in the geographic markets served by our branches; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets, in general, periodically experience volatility that is sometimes unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. The small public float for our shares may make it difficult to sell your shares and may cause volatility in our stock price. A substantial portion of our shares of common stock are closely held by certain inside investors and our common stock has experienced limited trading volume since our initial public offering. As of January 1 2011, Heritage beneficially owned 31.5% of our common stock, Fred Fehsenfeld, Jr., the Chairman of our Board and an affiliate of Heritage, beneficially owned 7.1% of our common stock and collectively Heritage, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned 65.5% of our common stock. In addition, under a participation rights agreement between us and Heritage, Heritage has the right, except in limited circumstances, to purchase shares from us when we issue common stock so that its percentage ownership interest in our common stock does not decrease. Therefore, if Heritage purchases all of the shares reserved for sale to Heritage when we issue common stock, Heritage will maintain its ownership interests in our common stock. Consequently, our public float is expected to remain small for a public company, the availability of our shares may be limited and you may encounter difficulty selling your shares or obtaining a suitable price at which to sell your shares. In addition, as a result of the small float, you could experience meaningful volatility in the trading price of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or publish negative research, or our results are below analysts’ estimates, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock may depend on the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or our results are below analysts’ estimates, our stock price would likely 29 decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Heritage and Mr. Fehsenfeld have significant influence over our company, and their control could delay or deter a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take actions with which you may disagree. As of January 1, 2011, Heritage beneficially owned 31.5% of our outstanding common stock and Fred Fehsenfeld, Jr., the Chairman of our Board and an affiliate of Heritage, owned an additional 7.1% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Heritage and Mr. Fehsenfeld have significant influence over our decision to enter into any corporate transaction and with respect to any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether other stockholders believe that the transaction is in their own best interests. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. We are required to evaluate our internal control under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Each year we must prepare or update the process documentation and perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We and our independent auditors may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need further attention and improvement, particularly with respect to any businesses that we decide to acquire in the future. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could harm our ability to operate our business. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Investor perception that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely, consistent basis may adversely affect our stock price. Failure to comply with Section 404 could also potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, NASDAQ or other regulatory authorities. We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock to our stockholders and any determination to pay cash dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. We currently intend to retain any profits to provide capacity for general corporate uses and growth of our business. Our Board of Directors does not intend to declare cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends to our stockholders in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Consequently, it is uncertain when, if ever, we will declare dividends to our stockholders. If we do not pay dividends, investors will only obtain a return on their investment if the value of our shares of common stock 30 appreciates. In addition, the terms of our existing or future borrowing arrangements may limit our ability to declare and pay dividends. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions that stockholders may favor. Our company is incorporated in Delaware. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable, including a provision that authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with such voting rights, dividend rates, liquidation, redemption, conversion and other rights as our Board of Directors may fix and without further stockholder action. The issuance of preferred stock with voting rights could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. This could frustrate a change in the composition of our Board of Directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. Takeover attempts generally include offering stockholders a premium for their stock. Therefore, preventing a takeover attempt may cause you to lose an opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Delaware law also prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the Board of Directors approves the transaction. This provision may prevent changes in our management or corporate structure. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our Board of Directors is permitted to and may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the affirmative vote of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of our total voting power is required to amend our certificate of incorporation or to approve mergers, consolidations, conversions or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Given the voting power of Heritage, we would need the approval of Heritage for any of these transactions to occur. Our bylaws provide for the division of our Board of Directors into three classes with staggered three year terms. The classification of our Board of Directors could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 