Item 1A. Risk Factors Because our auditors have issued a going concern opinion and we may be unable to achieve our objectives, we may have to suspend our business operations should sufficient financial resources be unavailable. Our auditors’ report in our December 31, 2011 consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 expressed an opinion that our capital resources as of December 31, 2011 are insufficient to sustain operations. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have minimal operations, no revenues and no current prospects for future revenues, and we expect losses to continue into the future. Our operations to date have consisted primarily of developing our operating plan. We have no operating history upon which an evaluation of our potential success or failure can be made. As of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit. As of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,645,000. Our ability to generate revenues and become profitable is dependent upon our ability to commercialize our two products. We expect to incur additional operating losses in the future due to commercialization of our intellectual property. We require a significant amount of capital for our operations; should we fail to raise sufficient capital we will have to cease our operations and you will lose your entire investment. The development of our Sentinel BreastScan and maneuverable-coiled guidewire will require significant outlays of capital and generally offers limited success probability. Our cash as of December 31, 2011, was $110 and is insufficient to meet our current operating cash requirements. We need to raise a significant amount of capital to pay for our planned business and development activities. If we cannot raise the capital to fund our required expenditures, we will be unable to commercialize our intellectual properties and our business will likely fail. Even assuming that we obtain the required financing, if our products are not accepted by our market, you will lose your entire investment. We are subject to government regulation and failure to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals would severely limit our ability to sell our products. Our Sentinel BreastScan is subject to regulation by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies. Pursuant to FDA regulations, we must obtain either a 510(k) clearance or premarket authorization (“PMA”) prior to marketing our products in the United States. If we do not obtain such clearance or PMA, we will not be able to implement our current business plan, and may be unable to generate any revenues. The clearance and approval process for both the FDA and can be costly, time consuming and uncertain. There can be no assurance that we will receive these clearances, or that we will have sufficient resources to commence or complete the regulatory approval process. Delays in obtaining such clearances or PMAs or changes in existing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Even if we do obtain regulatory approval of a product, that approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Even after granting regulatory approval, the FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries continue to review and inspect marketed products, manufacturers and manufacturing facilities, which may create additional regulatory burdens. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility, may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including a withdrawal of the product from the market. 9 Our inability to complete our clinical testing and product development activities would severely limit our ability to operate or finance operations. In order to commercialize our products, we must complete substantial clinical trials, and obtain sufficient safety and efficacy results to support required registration approval and market acceptance. We may not be able to successfully complete the development of our products, or successfully market our technologies or products. We may encounter problems and delays relating to research and development, regulatory approval and intellectual property rights of our technologies and products. Our research and development programs may not be successful, and our technologies and products may not identify tumor or lesions and may not facilitate the identification of breast cancer with the expected result. Our technologies and products may not prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, and we may not obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our technologies or product candidates. If any of these events occur, we may not have adequate resources to continue operations for the period required to resolve the issues delaying commercialization and we may not be able to raise capital to finance our continued operations during the period required for resolution of the issues. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to sell our products, lack of commercial acceptance could impair our business. Even if we obtain all required regulatory approvals, we cannot be certain that our products and processes will be accepted in the marketplace at a level that would allow us to operate profitably. Our products may be unable to achieve commercial acceptance for a number of reasons, such as the availability of alternatives that are less expensive, more effective, or easier to use; the perception of a low cost-benefit ratio for the product amongst our market, including screening centers, hospitals, radiologists and physicians; or an inadequate level of product support. Our technologies or product candidates may not be employed in all potential applications being investigated, and any reduction in applications would limit the market acceptance of our technologies and product candidates, and our potential revenues. We are dependent upon New Technology. Our Sentinel BreastScan System is relatively new and has not yet achieved widespread acceptance in the health care industry. Additionally, our maneuverable-coiled guidewire is based upon a “buckling theory” in which the tip is bent according to the force applied which is not a commerically accepted application for guidewire. Our success is entirely dependent upon our ability to successfully commercialize our two products, the Sentinel BreastScan System and the buckling coiled guidewire. Our inability to complete our product development activities would severely limit our ability to operate or finance operations. We may not be able to successfully complete the development of our products, or successfully market our technologies or products. We may encounter problems and delays relating to research and development, regulatory approval and intellectual property rights of our technologies and products. Our research and development programs may not be successful, and our technologies and products may not identify tumor or lesions and may not facilitate the identification of breast cancer with the expected result. Our technologies and products may not prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, and we may not obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our technologies or product candidates. If any of these events occur, we may not have adequate resources to continue operations for the period required to resolve the issues delaying commercialization and we may not be able to raise capital to finance our continued operations during the period required for resolution of the issues. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to sell our products, lack of commercial acceptance could impair our business. Even if we obtain all required regulatory approvals, we cannot be certain that our products and processes will be accepted in the marketplace at a level that would allow us to operate profitably. Our products may be unable to achieve commercial acceptance for a number of reasons, such as the availability of alternatives that are less expensive, more effective, or easier to use; the perception of a low cost-benefit ratio for the product amongst our market, including screening centers, hospitals, radiologists and physicians; or an inadequate level of product support. Our technologies or product candidates may not be employed in all potential applications being investigated, and any reduction in applications would limit the market acceptance of our technologies and product candidates, and our potential revenues. 10 The market for our products will be heavily dependent on third-party reimbursement policies. In the United States, suppliers of health care products and services are greatly affected by Medicare, Medicaid, and other government insurance programs, as well as by private insurance reimbursement programs. Third-party payors (Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurance companies and other organizations) may affect the pricing or relative attractiveness of our system by regulating the coverage or level of reimbursement provided by such payors to the physicians and clinics utilizing the Sentinel BreastScan System. If examinations utilizing the Sentinel BreastScan System are not reimbursed under these programs, or are not adequately reimbursed, our ability to sell the system may be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that third-party payors will provide reimbursement for use of our system. In international markets, reimbursement by third-party medical insurance providers, including governmental insurers and independent providers, varies from country to country. In certain countries, our ability to achieve significant market penetration may depend upon the availability of third-party governmental reimbursement. We face competition in the medical technology field and if we do not keep pace with our competitors and with technological and market changes, we may not be able to successfully compete. The medical device industry generally, and the cancer diagnostic imaging segments in particular, are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and intense competition. Other companies in the medical device industry may be developing, or could in the future attempt to develop, products that are competitive with ours. The market in which we intend to participate is highly competitive. Many of the companies in the cancer diagnostic and screening and maneuverable-coiled guidewire markets have substantially greater technological, financial, research and development, regulatory, manufacturing, human and marketing resources, and experience than we do. Our competitors may succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than ours, or that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. We may not be able to compete against such competitors and potential competitors in terms of manufacturing, marketing, and sales. If we are unable to compete successfully, it could have a negative impact on our results of operations and our stock price. Potential product liability claims could affect our earnings and financial condition. The nature of our business exposes us to risk for product liability claims, which are inherent in the use of our maneuverable-coiled guidewire and the testing, manufacturing and marketing of cancer detection products. Significant litigation, not involving us, has occurred in the past based on allegations of false negative diagnoses of cancer or allegations of malpractice by physicians or those using our system. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can avoid significant product liability exposure. We currently do not maintain product liability insurance coverage. Even if we obtain coverage, there is substantial doubt that product liability insurance will cover all liabilities should we face significant claims. A successful products liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Should we be unable to maintain adequate product liability insurance, our ability to market our products will be significantly impaired. Any losses we may suffer for future claims or a voluntary or involuntary recall of our products and the damage that any product liability litigation or voluntary or involuntary recall may do to the reputation or marketability of our products would have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, financial condition and stock price. We are currently dependent on two products. Our sole source of revenues for the foreseeable future is expected to come from the sale of our coiled guidewire and the Sentinel BreastScan System. Our operations may be adversely affected by economic, regulatory or similar problems or events that may apply only to us, only to medical devices of the type similar to the Sentinel BreastScan System or only within a particular market area in which the Sentinel BreastScan System is sold. The adverse effect of any such problems or events could be more easily absorbed in an investment in a more diversified business or one that operates in a different industry. 11 Our products are new and unproven. The science and technology of medical products, including ultrasound equipment, is rapidly evolving. The Sentinel BreastScan System may require significant further research, development, testing, and regulatory clearances and is subject to the risk of failure inherent in the development of products based on innovative technologies. These risks include the possibility that the Sentinel BreastScan System will prove to be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances; that the Sentinel BreastScan System, if effective, may prove uneconomical to market; that third parties hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing the Sentinel BreastScan System; or that third parties market superior or equivalent products. Accordingly, we are unable to predict whether our research and development activities will result in a commercially viable product. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained for the Sentinel BreastScan System, we cannot predict with certainty when or if we will be able to sell the system. There is also no guarantee that we will be able to develop and sell other products based upon the technology behind the system. Methods for the detection of cancer are subject to rapid technological innovation and there can be no assurance that future technical changes will not render the Sentinel BreastScan System obsolete. There can be no assurance that the development of new types of diagnostic medical equipment or technology will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. If our patents and proprietary rights do not provide substantial protection, then our business and competitive position will suffer. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, on our ability both in the United States and in other countries to obtain patents, enforce those patents, preserve trade secrets and operate without infringing on proprietary rights of third parties. We currently have one patent. Also, the scope of any of our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. The patent positions of medical device companies are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that any patents that now or in the future are owned or licensed by us will prevent other companies from developing similar or medically equivalent products, or that other companies will not be issued patents that may prevent the sale of our products or that will require us to enter into licenses and pay significant fees or royalties. Patent litigation is costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that we will have or will devote sufficient resources to pursue such litigation. There can be no assurance that our patent will provide us meaningful protection. Any claims relating to our making improper payments to physicians for consulting services, or other potential violations of regulations governing interactions between us and healthcare providers, could be time-consuming and costly. Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and marketers of our products will be subject to scrutiny under various state and federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. The federal anti-kickback laws prohibit unlawful inducements for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded health care programs, such as remuneration provided to physicians to induce them to use certain medical devices reimbursable by Medicare or Medicaid. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex and subject to evolving interpretations, and even minor, inadvertent violations potentially can give rise to claims that the relevant law has been violated. Certain states have similar anti-kickback, anti-fee splitting and self-referral laws, imposing substantial penalties for violations. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that any of the healthcare fraud and abuse laws will not change or be interpreted in the future in a manner which restricts or adversely affects our business activities or relationships with physicians, screening centers, hospitals and marketers of our products. In addition, possible sanctions for violating these anti-kickback laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of these prohibitions. 12 Federal anti-kickback laws also restrict the kinds of relationships we may have with physicians, including clinical research investigators and consultants. We must comply with a variety of other laws, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid, which also can be triggered by violations of federal anti-kickback laws; the Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which protects the privacy of individually identifiable healthcare information; and the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertisement and consumer protections. In certain cases, federal and state authorities pursue actions for false claims on the basis that manufacturers and distributors are promoting unapproved or off-label uses of their products. The scope and enforcement of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. Although we believe we comply with these laws, and intend to comply in the future, we cannot assure you that federal or state regulatory authorities will not challenge or investigate our current or future activities under these laws. Any challenge or investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal regulatory review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time-consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, and whether or not they will be retroactive. Changes to health care reform could adversely affect us and our business. On March 23, 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L. 111-148) and on March 30, 2010, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-152). The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the "PPACA") provides for significant expansions of coverage for many categories of patients. Effective 2014, large employers will be required to offer coverage or be liable for an additional tax. The effect of this provision is not certain, as the amount of the tax may be less than the cost of providing health insurance. Individuals will be required to have qualifying health coverage, or pay a tax penalty. In 2014, state-based health insurance exchanges will be established to facilitate the purchase of insurance by individuals and small businesses. Effective in 2014, a comprehensive set of mandated benefits is established. Until 2014, a high risk pool will be established for individuals with pre-existing conditions. Other provisions eliminate lifetime coverage limits, rescission of coverage except in cases of fraud, and expand mandatory coverage of children. The net effect of these provisions on us cannot be predicted at this time. However, the PPACA may substantially increase governmental health care expenditures. This may result in added downward pressure on reimbursement for procedures utilizing the Sentinel BreastScan System. In addition, the PPACA establishes a 2.3% excise tax on medical devices, beginning in 2014. It is not entirely clear that this tax will apply to our business model of charging for procedures. We anticipate, however, that implementing regulations may apply the tax to the Sentinel BreastScan System. Both downward pressure on reimbursement and the excise tax could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and the results of operations. We depend on third-party suppliers and manufacturers, and if they are unable to deliver, our business would suffer. We expect to purchase all of our components and supplies from third-party suppliers and to outsource any manufacturing to contract manufacturers. Because of regulatory restrictions on manufacturers of medical devices, we may experience significant difficulty in locating suppliers and manufacturers qualified to manufacture our products or components thereof. Further, manufacturers of medical devices generally have the right to manufacture similar products that may compete with our products, and to terminate their agreements without significant penalty under certain conditions. In addition, disclosure of our proprietary technology to a third-party for manufacturing purposes increases the risk of theft or loss of trade secrets. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in locating manufacturers or suppliers on terms and conditions or with reputations and experience acceptable to us or that our trade secrets will not be stolen. 13 We will need additional financing, which we may not be able to receive. We currently have no significant operations from which to generate cash flows. Our operations to date have consumed substantial capital resources and we expect to require additional financing to fund our continued operations and implement our business plan. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including technological and market developments, our ability to sell the Sentinel BreastScan System or the underlying software, and cash flows from operating activities. If we raise additional funds through equity or debt financings to finance our future operations, any equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders and debt financing would result in increased interest expense. Any financing, if available, may be on terms unfavorable or not acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not obtained, we may be required to reduce or curtail our proposed operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced since 2008, could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. If we do obtain debt financing in the future, those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. We expect to incur substantial losses so long as we continue our planned manufacturing, regulatory, and research and development activities. If we ultimately receive regulatory approval for the Sentinel BreastScan System, our manufacturing, marketing and sales activities are likely to substantially increase our expenses and our need for additional working capital. In the future, it is possible that we will not have adequate resources to support continuation of our business activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressures faced by us will not materially and adversely affect our business operating results and financial condition. Breast cancer screening is an intensely competitive industry. Current testing methods are well accepted in the industry and there may be resistance to moving from such practices to new technologies. We compete with companies that are attempting to do breast cancer screening using other, and similar, techniques. These techniques include infrared thermography and other forms of infrared image processing. In addition, many companies are researching and developing new breast cancer screening methods. There are several companies in the guidewire field, including major companies such as J&J, Boston Scientific, Cook Medical, Medtronic, Inc., and Bard. Such companies offer a variety of products that are specifically related for the usage of a guidewire. The total number of guide wires in use today worldwide is estimated at more than 4,500,000 annually. We are not aware of any other company that has developed, manufactured, and/or marketed a device of a similar nature based on the “Buckling” theory in which the tip is bent according to the force applied to it, whereby the time to reach the site is diminished. There is no assurance that our guidewire product will successfully compete with other similar products. Whether our products can be marketed successfully depends largely on whether the product meets market needs, whether it encounters substantial market competition and whether we have an adequately trained staff to market the product, among other factors. There can be no assurance that our products can be successfully delivered to meet market needs. Although we are aware of no products now being developed or marketed that would perform significant portions of the functions of the Sentinel BreastScan System, or our maneuverable-coiled guidewire it is possible that our products will encounter substantial market competition. There are other entities and institutions, both public and private, engaged in development of breast scanning productions and guidewire products. Many of these entities and institutions have substantially greater capital and research and development resources than us and may be able to respond more quickly and efficiently to new technologies or requirements and to devote greater managerial or financial resources than us to market their businesses and to develop and promote new and existing methods and technologies. There can be no assurance that our current or future competitors will not develop products or services that may be superior in one or more respects to ours or that may gain greater market acceptance. 14 We depend heavily on our management and we may be unable to replace them if we lose their services. We are dependent upon our senior management, particularly Mr. Thomas DiCicco, our Chief Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer. The loss or unavailability of Mr. DiCicco could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and viability. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional personnel.The loss of the services of any key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because members of our management have other business interests, they may not be able or willing to devote a sufficient amount of time to our business operations, causing our business to fail. The personal interests of our officers and directors and those of the companies that they are affiliated with may come into conflict with our interests and those of our minority stockholders. We, as well as the other companies that our officers and directors are affiliated with, may present them with business opportunities, which are simultaneously desired. Additionally, we may compete with these other companies for investment capital, technical resources, key personnel and other things. You should carefully consider these potential conflicts of interest before deciding whether to invest in our shares of our common stock. We have not yet adopted a policy for resolving such conflicts of interests. Our directors’ and officers’ potential conflicts of interest due to their affiliation with other companies including but not limited to Thomas DiCicco’s control of Infrared Sciences, our licensor for the Sentinel BreastScan System. We may also be subject to conflicts of interests due to family relationships including our Chief Executive Officer and Director Thomas DiCicco is the father of our Vice President and Director, Michael DiCicco. We are dependent upon doctors and health care providers. Our business is highly dependent upon the acceptance of our product by doctors and health centers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract additional doctors and centers to place systems. There is also no assurance that we will be able to establish and promote the high degree of credibility and high quality of service it must have in order to implement our business plan. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never declared or paid dividends and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our current management holds significant control over our common stock, which will prevent our minority shareholders from having the ability to control any of our corporate actions. Our management has significant control over our voting stock, which may make it difficult to complete some corporate transactions without their support and may prevent a change in our control. Our officers and directors control a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this substantial control of our common stock, our management will have considerable influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. In addition, this ownership could discourage the acquisition of our common stock by potential investors and could have an anti-takeover effect, possibly depressing the trading price of our common stock. Investors may have difficulty in reselling their shares due to the lack of market or state Blue Sky laws. The holders of our shares of common stock and persons who desire to purchase them in any trading market that might develop in the future should be aware that there might be significant state law restrictions upon the ability of investors to resell our shares. Accordingly, even if we are successful in having the Shares available for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, investors should consider any secondary market for our securities to be a limited one. We intend to seek coverage and publication of information regarding the company in an accepted publication, which permits a "manual exemption." This manual exemption permits a security to be distributed in a particular state without being registered if the company issuing the security has a listing for that security in a securities manual recognized by the state. However, it is not enough for the security to be listed in a recognized manual. The listing entry must contain (1) the names of issuers, officers, and directors, (2) an issuer's balance sheet, and (3) a profit and loss statement for either the fiscal year preceding the balance sheet or for the most recent fiscal year of operations. We may not be able to secure a listing containing all of this information. Furthermore, the manual exemption is a non issuer exemption restricted to secondary trading transactions, making it unavailable for issuers selling newly issued securities. Most of the accepted manuals are those published in Standard and Poor's, Moody's Investor Service, Fitch's Investment Service, and Best's Insurance Reports, and many states expressly recognize these manuals. A smaller number of states declare that they “recognize securities manuals” but do not specify the recognized manuals. The following states do not have any provisions and therefore do not expressly recognize the manual exemption: Alabama, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Montana, South Dakota, Tennessee, Vermont and Wisconsin. 15 Accordingly, our shares should be considered totally illiquid, which inhibits investors’ ability to resell their shares. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management's attention and harm our business. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies involved. If these fluctuations occur in the future, the market price of our shares could fall regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has been brought against that company. If the market price or volume of our shares suffers extreme fluctuations, then it may become involved in this type of litigation which would be expensive and divert management's attention and resources from managing the business. We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions and you may have difficulty selling shares of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. Our common stock is a “penny stock”, and we will become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, or the “Penny Stock Rule”. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. We do not anticipate that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially, potentially adversely affecting the ability of stockholders to sell their shares. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following factors, many of which are generally beyond our control. These factors may include: • the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitor's results of operations; • the acquisition or divestiture of businesses, products, assets or technology; • disputes, litigation or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights or other potential legal actions; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers and directors; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. Market price fluctuations may negatively affect the ability of investors to sell our shares at consistent prices. 16 Sales of our common stock under Rule 144 could reduce the price of our stock. In general, persons holding restricted securities in a Securities & Exchange Commission reporting company, including affiliates, must hold their shares for a period of at least six months, may not sell more than one percent of the total issued and outstanding shares in any 90-day period, and must resell the shares in an unsolicited brokerage transaction at the market price. If substantial amounts of our common stock become available for resale under Rule 144, prevailing market prices for our common stock will be reduced. We may, in the future, issue additional securities, which would reduce investors’ percent of ownership and may dilute our share value. If future operations or acquisitions are financed through issuing equity securities, stockholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, securities issued in connection with future financing activities or potential acquisitions may have rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of our common stock. We expect to issue additional equity securities pursuant to employee benefit plans. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon the exercise of options may result in dilution to our stockholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize us to issue 490,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2001, we had 44,029,626 shares of common stock outstanding. Accordingly, we may issue up to an additional 445,970,374 shares of common stock. The future issuance of common stock may result in substantial dilution in the percentage of our common stock held by our then existing shareholders. We may value any common stock issued in the future on an arbitrary basis including for services or acquisitions or other corporate actions that may have the effect of diluting the value of the shares held by our stockholders, and might have an adverse effect on any trading market for our common stock. Additionally, we are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our board of directors may designate the rights terms and preferences at its discretion including conversion and voting preferences without notice to our shareholders. Our status as a public company may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors. Sarbanes-Oxley and new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. As an operating public company, we expect these new rules and regulations to increase our compliance costs in 2011 and beyond and to make certain activities more time-consuming and costly than if we were not an operating public company. As an operating public company, we also expect that these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board or as executive officers. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. There have been changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including Sarbanes-Oxley and new regulations promulgated by the SEC. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Members of our Board, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we could be subject to liability under applicable laws or our reputation may be harmed. 17 Special Information Regarding Forward Looking Statements Some of the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10K are “forward-looking statements.” These forward-looking statements involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, the factors set forth above under “Risk Factors.” The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update and revise any forward-looking statements or to publicly announce the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements in this document to reflect any future or developments. Further, Section 27A(b)(2)(D) of the Securities Act and Section 21E(b)(2)(D) of the Securities Exchange Act expressly state that the safe harbor for forward-looking statements does not apply to statements made in connection with an initial public offering. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 