Item 1A: Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks and factors listed below, however, are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on 10-K include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. In addition, we are subject to legal and regulatory changes. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company We may not be able to grow successfully through future acquisitions or successfully manage future growth, and we may not be able to effectively integrate the businesses we do acquire. Our business strategy includes growth through the acquisitions of other businesses. We may not be able to continue to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or successfully acquire those opportunities identified fitting pursuant to our strategies. In addition, we may not be successful in integrating current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention. For example, in connection with our acquisition in 2008 of China Water, we determined that there were, among other things, financial irregularities and accounting deficiencies. As a result, we recorded impairment charges of approximately $357.5 million related to China Water during the year ended December 31, 2009. Even if we are successful in integrating our current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies, that we expected from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of our capital resources without the expected returns on such capital. Also, competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making further acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making additional acquisitions. For example, in connection with our acquisition in 2009 of Charis Partners and related assets, we determined that the pipeline was not operating in an efficient and cost effective manner. As a result, we have committed to building a larger capacity pipeline, additional booster stations, and trucking facilities to be completed by June 30, 2011. Additional risks related to our acquisition strategy include, but are not limited to: • the potential disruption of our existing businesses; • entering new markets or industries in which we have limited prior experience; • difficulties integrating and retaining key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; • difficulties integrating or expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and • risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. 14 Table of Contents Future charges due to possible impairments of acquired assets may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and stock price. A portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill and other intangible assets, which may be subject to future impairment that would result in financial statement write-offs. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 18% of our total assets at December 31, 2010. If there is a material change in our business operations or prospects, the value of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future could decrease significantly. For example, we recorded approximately $357.5 million of non-cash goodwill impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2009 because our acquisition of China Water did not achieve its expected results and we also discovered financial irregularities and accounting deficiencies after taking control of the company. On an ongoing basis and at least annually, we will evaluate, partially based on discounted expected future cash flows, whether the carrying value of such intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets, although not requiring any additional cash outlay, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our revenue has been highly concentrated among a small number of customers, and our results of operations could be harmed if we lose a key revenue source and fail to replace it. Our overall revenue has been highly concentrated, with a few customers accounting for a significant percentage of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2010, two customers represented 46% and 5% of total revenue, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2009, two customers represented 57% and 6% of total revenue, respectively. We expect that a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Approximately 43% of our revenue from the pipeline included in our water solutions for energy development segment has been highly concentrated among two customers, who have multi-year contracts with us for guaranteed minimum volumes and guaranteed minimum prices. While these two customers are large public companies, any unforeseen reduction or interruption concerning the operations of these customers or their refusal to make the contractual minimum payments could significantly reduce our segment revenues. In addition, our revenue from our water bottle segment is highly concentrated in a single customer, Coca-Cola China. In the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 69% of sales in the segment and 46% of our total sales were made to Coca-Cola China, who resells our bottled water products. Our arrangements with Coca-Cola China do not impose minimum purchase commitments and are not exclusive. As a result, if Coca-Cola China discontinues or reduces purchases and we are unable to generate replacement sales from new or existing customers, our revenue and net income in our bottled water segment would decline considerably. Also, because the margins on our sales to Coca-Cola China are generally lower than on our sales to other customers and through distributors, if sales to Coca-Cola China increase as a percentage of overall sales, our margins could decline. Because a relatively small number of companies dominate the industries we serve, it may be difficult for us to replace our customers if we lose their business. If a principal customer discontinues its relationship with us, we may not be able to fully replace its business, if at all, and as a result our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to increase revenue in the future will depend in part upon our ability to find new customers for our products and services and we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so. 15 Table of Contents We are involved in litigation with Xu Hong Bin, former president and chairman of China Water, related to our intended cancellation of approximately 5.3 million shares of our common stock held by Xu, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty. Xu Hong Bin, the former president and chairman of our subsidiary, China Water, filed a lawsuit against us claiming that our intended cancellation of his shares is a breach of an escrow resolution and transition agreement that we entered into with him. We filed a countersuit expanding our claims against Xu and seeking recovery of the stock at issue, cash paid to Xu in connection with our acquisition of China Water, and cash misappropriated by Xu. No assurance can be given that the outcome of the litigation will be in our favor or, in the event that it is, that a court will award us the full amount of damages that we are seeking. We may also determine that it is in the best interests of our company to settle our claims against Xu for less than the amount of damages we are seeking in our countersuit. If Xu prevails in his claims or we decide to enter into a settlement agreement for these claims, we may be required to pay cash damages or we may not be able to cancel, as we intend to do, all or any of the approximately 5.3 million shares of common stock held by Xu. Our ability to succeed will largely depend upon the efforts of our directors and officers, and in particular our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Richard J. Heckmann. The loss of Mr. Heckmann could affect our ability to operate. Our ability to succeed is largely dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers and directors, especially Mr. Heckmann, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Even though we believe that our success depends on the continued services of Mr. Heckmann, we have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Heckmann, nor obtained “key man” life insurance. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that Mr. Heckmann will remain with the company for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, though Mr. Heckmann has expressed a commitment of his full time efforts to our success, he is not required to commit any specified amount of time to the company’s affairs and, as a result, he may have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business acquisitions and monitoring the related due diligence and closing process. The loss of the services of Mr. Heckmann or any other of our other executive officers and directors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully achieve our business objectives. We have had, and may have in the future, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and thereby cause a decline in our stock price. As of December 31, 2010, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. However, we have had in the past and may have in the future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. For example, in connection with our acquisition of China Water, we inherited, and have since remediated, weaknesses in China Water’s internal controls over financial reporting that we reported for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009. If we are unable to address any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may have errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting deadlines, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Changes to the fair market or carrying value of our investment in UGSI could affect the value of our investment and any potential recordable income from the investments, which could result in a substantial write down. We own 7% of UGSI, a supplier of water infrastructure pipeline products. In 2009, through two separate purchases, we acquired shares of their common and convertible preferred stock for a total investment of $7.2 million dollars. At December 31, 2010, the market value of our shares was approximately $13.4 million (based on the closing market price of UGSI as quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board). 16 Table of Contents The observable market price of UGSI’s stock has been volatile, and there is no liquidity in the stock. Changes to the fair market or carrying value of our investment in UGSI could affect the value of our investments and any potential recordable income from the investments, which could result in a substantial write down. Risks Related to our Water Solutions For Energy Development Segment Our business depends on spending by the oil and natural gas industry in the United States, and this spending and our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. Customers’ expectations for lower market prices for oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may cause them to curtail spending, thereby reducing demand for our services. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, domestic and worldwide economic conditions, political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries and merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling activity by some of our customers. This reduction may cause a decline in the demand for our services or adversely affect the price of our services. In addition, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas also may have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced and the number of producing wells for us to service declines. Deterioration in the global economic environment has caused the oilfield and gas services industry to cycle into a downturn, and the rate at which it may continue to slow, or return to former levels, is uncertain. Adverse changes in capital markets and declines in prices for oil and natural gas have caused many oil and natural gas producers to announce reductions in capital budgets for future periods. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause these and other oil and natural gas producers to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices increase from current levels. These cuts in spending will curtail drilling programs as well as discretionary spending on well services, which may result in a reduction in the demand for our services, the rates we can charge and our utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could become unable to pay their vendors and service providers, including us. Any of these conditions or events could adversely affect our operating results. Any interruption in our services due to pipeline ruptures or spills or necessary maintenance could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand. Our water transport pipelines are susceptible to ruptures and spills and require ongoing maintenance. We may experience difficulties in maintaining the operation of our pipelines, thereby causing downtime and delays. For example, in 2010, we had breaks in our 50-mile pipeline in eastern Texas that resulted in a delay in transporting our customers’ water. While we have announced plans to add a new pipeline for additional capacity and operational efficiencies, any interruption in our services due to pipeline breakdowns or necessary maintenance could reduce sales revenues and earnings. If there are transportation interruptions at our pipelines, even if only temporary, our business and reputation could be severely harmed. 17 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may not be fully covered under our insurance policies. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, pollution and other damage to the environment, fires and hydrocarbon spills. These conditions can cause: • personal injury or loss of life; • liabilities from pipeline breaks and accidents by our fleet of trucks and other equipment; • damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment; and • the suspension of operations. For example, in 2011 saltwater-produced fluid from our pipelines leaked into a private property pond. Because of environmental and other regulations, we were required to clean up the pond and remediate the environmental impact. The occurrence of a significant event or adverse claim in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the well services industry. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. We maintain insurance coverage that we believe to be customary in the industry against these hazards. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. In addition, insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, it may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could make such insurance prohibitively expensive. It is likely that, in our insurance renewals, our premiums and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or considerably more expensive than it has been in the recent past. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits, and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We are subject to United States federal, state and local regulations regarding issues of health, safety, transportation, and protection of natural resources and the environment. Under these regulations, we may become liable for penalties, damages or costs of remediation. Any changes in laws and government regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Our operations are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety, waste management, and transportation and disposal of produced-water and other materials. For example, our water solutions for energy development segment includes disposal into injection wells that pose some risks of environmental liability, including leakage from the wells to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Liability under these laws and regulations could result in cancellation of well operations, fines and penalties, expenditures for remediation, and liability for property damage and personal injuries. Sanctions for noncompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations also may include assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, revocation of permits and issuance of corrective action orders. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, and, to a lesser extent, orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict and/or joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to the trucking safety regulations, which are likely to be amended, and made more strict, as part of the initiative known as Comprehensive, Safety, Analysis, or “CSA.” If our current USDOT safety rating of “Satisfactory” is downgraded in connection with this initiative, our business and results of our operations may be adversely affected. As part of the CSA initiative, the FMCSA is expected to open a rulemaking docket later in 2011 for purposes of changing its safety rating methodology. Any new methodology adopted in the rulemaking is likely to link safety ratings more closely to roadside inspection and driver violation data gathered and analyzed from month to month under the agency's new Safety Measurement System or "SMS." This linkage could result in greater variability in safety ratings than the current system, in which a safety rating is based on relatively infrequent on-site compliance audits at a carrier's place(s) of business. Preliminary studies by transportation consulting firms indicate that "Satisfactory" ratings (or any equivalent under a new SMS-based system) may become more difficult to achieve and maintain under such a system. If we lose our current "Satisfactory" rating, which is the highest and best rating under this initiative we may lose some of our customer contracts that require such a rating, adversely affecting our business prospects and results of operations. Seasonal weather conditions and natural disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and harm our business. Our water solutions for the energy development segment of operations are located in the southern, mid-western and eastern United States. These areas are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the winter and spring. During periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, we may be unable to move our trucks between locations, thereby reducing our ability to provide services and generate revenues. For example, many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our customers’ jobsites due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws, limiting our access and our ability to provide service in these areas. In February 2011, portions of Texas had record snowfalls. During that period, we and our customers had to significantly reduce or halt operations, resulting in a loss of revenue. In addition, the regions in which we operate have in the past been, and may in the future be, affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, windstorms, floods and tornadoes. In 2005 and 2008, tropical hurricanes and related storm activity caused extensive damage in and to portions of Texas and Louisiana. As a result, a natural disaster or inclement weather conditions could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases in driver compensation or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers could adversely affect our profitability. As a result of our acquisition of Complete Vacuum and Rental Inc., we increased the number of truck drivers from less than 5 to approximately 200 employed with us as of December 31, 2010. Maintaining a staff of qualified truck drivers is critical to the success of our operations. We have in the past experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers. In addition, due in part to current economic conditions, including the cost of fuel, insurance, and tractors and DOT regulatory requirements, the available pool of qualified truck drivers has been declining. Regulatory requirements, including the new initiative, and an improvement in the economy could reduce the number of eligible drivers or require us to pay more to attract and retain drivers. A shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other companies will create difficulties in increasing the number of our drivers for our anticipated expansion in our fleet of trucks. The compensation we offer our drivers is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to increase driver compensation in future periods. In addition, we and other companies in the oil and gas industry suffer from a high turnover rate of drivers. The high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified drivers, we could be forced to, among other things, adjust our compensation packages, increase the number of our trucks without drivers, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting customer demands, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. 19 Table of Contents A portion of our business is operated through a joint venture in which our rights to control business decisions are limited. A portion of our business is generated through Energy Transfer Water Solutions JV, LLC, or Energy Transfer Water Solutions, our joint venture with Energy Transfer Partners, L.P., or ETP, in which we hold a 50% ownership interest. The joint venture was formed to develop solutions for the transportation and treatment of produced water, frac fluids and other types of discharged waters generated in the Marcellus Shale and in the Haynesville Shale oil and natural gas fields. We have less control over business decisions affecting this joint venture than we have in our wholly-owned businesses. For example, we generally cannot act on major business initiatives for Energy Transfer Water Solutions without the consent of ETP. As a result, for this joint venture to operate efficiently, we and ETP must be in agreement on strategic, operational, funding and other matters. As a result of differing views and priorities, we and ETP may not agree on various matters related to the operation of Energy Transfer Water Solutions, which could result in delays or changes in operations that could materially harm our business prospects or lead to dissolution of the joint venture. Risks Related to Our Bottled Water Segment Limitations on or the unavailability of natural resources or energy resources needed to operate our business in China would impair our profitability. In order to produce our bottled water products in China, we need a readily available supply of water and electricity. We depend mainly on municipal water supplies to provide the water used in our products and on regulated electric companies to provide us with the electricity needed for our production facilities. In the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily all of our water was sourced from municipal water supplies. The Chinese municipal governments may put usage limits on these water resources in situations when water reserves for their cities are low or curtail electricity usage when the demand for energy resources is high relative to supply. Our business operations, income and profits would be highly impaired if such limits are imposed. In addition, the adequacy of our ground water supplies depends upon a variety of factors, including: • the amount of useable water stored in the groundwater basins; • water quality; and • climate change. A shortage of ground water could adversely affect: • our supply mix by causing us to increase reliance upon more expensive water sources; and • our capital expenditures by requiring us to construct pipelines to connect to alternative sources of supply or new wells to replace those that are no longer in service or are otherwise inadequate to meet the needs of our customers. Increases in raw material prices that we are unable to pass on to our customers would reduce profit margins. The principal raw materials used in our production, including water, bottled water containers, caps and packaging materials, are subject to a high degree of price volatility caused by external conditions. In particular, the PET (plastic) we use to manufacture our bottles is petroleum based and therefore subject to significant price fluctuations. In the year ended December 31, 2010 PET accounted for approximately 42% of our cost of goods sold. Oil prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years and the prices we pay for oil products and other raw materials may escalate in the future. Price changes to our raw materials may result in unexpected increases in production, packaging, and distribution costs, and we may be unable to increase the prices of our products to offset these increased costs. If so, our profit margins would decrease. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to respond successfully to changes in the marketplace. We are in the process of developing and introducing new bottled water products, such as flavored water, juices, teas, oxygenated water and nutrient-enriched bottled water products that could become new sources of revenue for us in the future and help us to diversify our revenue base. Part of our future development efforts will be focused on expanding our product offerings. If we fail to timely develop new products or if we overestimate market demand for new products in development, we may not be able to grow our sales revenue sufficiently to outpace our product development expenses. Any difficulties or delays in delivery or poor handling by distributors and third party transport operators may affect our sales and damage our reputation. We sell our own brands of bottled water in China through distributors. In the year ended December 31, 2010, our three largest distributors accounted for approximately 8% of total sales. The delivery of our products by distributors to retailers could be delayed or interrupted in the case of unforeseen events and disruptions that occur for various reasons beyond our control, including poor handling by distributors or third party transport operators, transportation bottlenecks, inclement weather, natural disasters, and labor strikes. Poor handling by distributors and third-party transport operators could also result in damage to our products. If our products are not delivered to retailers on time, or are delivered damaged, we could lose business and our reputation could be harmed. We may ineffectively allocate and balance the supply of our bottled water products among our distribution channels. We market and sell our bottled water products to distributors that sell them to end users under our own brands, to major global drink and beverage companies, and to other corporations, hotels, and casinos on a private label basis. Like any other manufacturer or producer of products, we have limited production capacity and there are times when our resources and capacity have been constrained. As our production capacity reaches its limit, it becomes more difficult for us to produce, balance, and allocate our bottled water products for sales through our various distribution and sales channels. In addition, we may be unable to expand production capacity in a timely manner to meet increased or unexpected demand. If we fail to strike an appropriate balance in producing and delivering our products for sale through our network of sales and distribution channels, we may be unsuccessful in meeting the relative demands of our distributors and the consumer market, which would hurt our sales, reputation, and relationships with distributors and customers. If we or distributors of our products are unable to maintain a positive brand image or if product liability claims or product recalls are brought against us or distributors of our products, our business, financial results, and brand image may be negatively affected. Our success depends in part on our products having a positive brand image with customers and consumers. Product quality issues, real or imagined, or allegations of product contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and cause customers and consumers to choose other brands. We may be liable if the consumption of our products causes injury or illness. We may also be required to recall products if they become or are perceived to become contaminated or are damaged or mislabeled. Costs typically include the cost of the product being replaced, the cost of the recall borne by our distributors, and the cost of removing our products from the market. If a recall decision is made, we will need to estimate the cost of the recall and record a charge to earnings. In making this estimate, judgment is required as to the quantity or volume to be recalled, the total cost of the recall campaign, and the ultimate negotiated sharing of the cost between us, our customers and the distributors of our products. A significant product liability or other product-related legal judgment against us or a widespread recall of our products could negatively impact our business, financial results, and brand image. 21 Table of Contents Changes to the existing environmental, food and hygiene, and production licensing laws and regulations in China may cause us to incur additional costs that could have an adverse impact on our financial position, and we may not be able to comply with such laws and regulations. We are subject to China’s environmental and food and hygiene laws and regulations. However, many of China’s laws and regulations are broad in their scope yet not specific as to regulatory standards. Accordingly, the local and national implementation of such laws and regulations in different localities may vary significantly. Although we strive to comply with all the applicable Chinese laws and regulations, the relevant government authorities may later determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial fines, suspension of operations by China’s government, loss of necessary licenses, recalls of our products and, in the case of serious noncompliance with China’s food and hygiene laws, we and our management may be subject to criminal proceedings. To comply with these laws and regulations, we may need to obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental authorities. While the cost of such compliance has not been significant in the past, new laws, regulations or enforcement policies could become more stringent and significantly increase our compliance costs that we may not be able to pass on to customers or limit our future business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins, results of operations and business prospects. Natural disasters, violent weather conditions, labor strikes and terrorist attacks could severely disrupt normal operations and harm our business. We produce bottled water and bottle products in 7 manufacturing facilities in China. As a result, our manufacturing activities and facilities are vulnerable to events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods, typhoons, labor disturbances, and terrorist attacks, that could cause interruption or delay in our business and loss of inventory and/or data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. We are particularly affected by earthquakes and violent weather conditions. Since 2003, China has had three earthquakes that measured at least 6.8 in magnitude. In addition, in 2006 and 2007, China’s southeastern coast was hit by typhoons that caused substantial property damage in the region. Any interruptions in production or damage to our facilities could reduce our net volume output and lost business opportunities, reducing sales revenue and earnings. We operate 7 manufacturing facilities in China, which exposes us to risks inherent to doing business in China that could harm our future revenues, gross margins and operations. Because we currently have 7 manufacturing facilities in China, we are exposed to risks of operating in China. Many of these risks are beyond our control, including: • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • currency exchange rate fluctuations of the Renminbi, which could affect our earnings and the value of our assets when translated to U.S. dollars; • exchange controls or other currency restrictions; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs, including those on raw materials and equipment; • interpretation and compliance with Chinese laws, including laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises, mergers and acquisitions involving Chinese companies, health and safety, and labor and employment; • difficulties in enforcement of Chinese laws, regulations and rules that may limit legal protections available to us and our stockholders; 22 Table of Contents • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict or make more costly the repatriation of earnings generated by our operations in China or influence the effective income tax rate attributable to profits generated or lost in China; • difficulties in collecting payments from our customers in China to whom we have extended significant amounts of credit if those customers do not pay on the terms extended to them; • the need to successfully consolidate the financial statements of our Chinese operations that are prepared in accordance with China’s accounting standards, which may not be consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; • the need to maintain an effective financial reporting system, including the need to implement and maintain internal controls over financial reporting that comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy; • inflation and adverse economic conditions stemming from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; • war, civil unrest or significant political instability; • expropriation, confiscatory taxation, nationalization or other government actions with respect to our assets in China; and • restrictive governmental regulation and bureaucratic delays. The occurrence of one or more of these risks may: • subject our past and future stockholders who are Chinese residents to fines and legal sanctions; • restrict the movement of funds to and from our operations in China, including dividend distributions and capital contributions; • require us to unwind transactions that fail to comply with certain Chinese laws and regulations; • revoke the right of our subsidiaries to do business in China; • inhibit our ability to collect receivables from our customers; • limit our ability to make future investments in China; and • harm our future revenues, gross margins and operations. China Water’s business will suffer if it loses its land use rights. There is no private ownership of land in China and all land ownership is held by the government of China, its agencies, and collectives. Land use rights can be obtained from the government for a period up to 70 years and are typically renewable. China Water holds land use rights for some of its occupied properties and leases property from third parties that it believes have proper land use rights. However, these land use rights may not necessarily be renewed and China Water’s lessors may not maintain their land use rights. If China Water or any of its lessors lose their land use right certificates, China Water may lose production facilities that would be difficult or impossible to replace. Should it have to relocate, China Water’s workforce may be unable or unwilling to work in the new location and its operations may be significantly disrupted during the relocation. The relocation or loss of facilities could cause China Water to lose revenues and/or increase its costs of production, which would negatively impact our financial results. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the future and stockholders may be adversely affected by the issuance of those shares. As of March 1, 2011, we had outstanding, 63.3 million publicly-issued warrants and 2.7 million privately-issued warrants to acquire an additional approximately 66.0 million shares of our common stock. All of the public warrants entitle the holder to purchase from us one share of our common stock at an exercise price of $6.00 and 941,175 of the private warrants are exercisable at $6.38 and 1,791,045 of the private warrants are exercisable at $2.02. The public warrants will expire on November 9, 2011 and the private warrants will expire on January 24, 2013 and August 22, 2012, respectively, or earlier upon redemption. As of March 1, 2011, we have granted an aggregate total of 2,722,858 options to acquire shares of common stock and restricted stock units under the Heckmann Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, consisting of 1,820,000 options to acquire shares of our common stock and 902,858 restricted stock units. We also have a total of 2,277,142 options and restricted stock units available for future grants under the Heckmann Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. If all of these warrants and options were exercised, and all restricted stock units fully vest, the common shares issuable from these warrants, options, and restricted stock units would represent approximately 62% of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2011 and would, upon their exercise and vesting and the payment of the exercise prices, as appropriate, dilute the interests of other stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our securities. The stock markets in general and the markets for stock of companies with significant operations in China in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements; • changes in the price of natural gas; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and • additions or departures of key personnel. The trading price of our common stock since our initial public offering has ranged from a high of $10.44 on the New York Stock Exchange on September 3, 2008 to a low of $3.38 on July 10, 2009. The last reported price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on March 1, 2011 was $5.79 per share. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. While we may declare dividends at some point in the future, we cannot assure you that you will ever receive cash dividends as a result of ownership of our common stock and any gains from investment in our common stock may only come from increases in our stock prices, if any. 24 Table of Contents We are subject to anti-takeover effects of certain charter and bylaw provisions and Delaware law, as well as of our substantial insider ownership. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended and restated, and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management and board of directors. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • establishing a classified board of directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year; • providing our board of directors the ability to set the number of directors and to fill vacancies on the board of directors occurring between stockholder meetings; • providing that directors may only be removed only for “cause” and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority in voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock; and • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years following the date the beneficial owner acquired at least 15% of our stock, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures, as well as the significant common stock beneficially owned by our Chairman, Richard J. Heckmann, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 