Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks and factors listed below, however, are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on 10-K include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. In addition, we are subject to legal and regulatory changes. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company We may not be able to grow successfully through future acquisitions or successfully manage future growth, and we may not be able to effectively integrate the businesses we do acquire. Our business strategy includes growth through the acquisitions of other businesses. We may not be able to continue to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or successfully acquire those opportunities identified fitting pursuant to our strategies. In order to complete acquisitions, we would expect to require additional debt and/or equity financing, which could increase our interest expense, leverage and shares outstanding. In addition, we may not be successful in integrating current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention. Even if we are successful in integrating our current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies, that we expected from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of our capital resources without the expected returns on such capital. Also, competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making further acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making additional acquisitions. Additional risks related to our acquisition strategy include, but are not limited to: • the potential disruption of our existing businesses; • entering new markets or industries in which we have limited prior experience; • difficulties integrating and retaining key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; • difficulties integrating or expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; 12 Table of Contents • risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; and • Whether any necessary additional debt or equity financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and the impact of such financing on our operating performance and earnings per share. We are vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to manage rapid growth that we expect to experience organically and through acquisitions, and the demands and additional responsibilities that our growth will place on our management. The following factors could present difficulties to us: lack of sufficient executive-level personnel, increased administrative burden, long lead times associated with acquiring additional equipment; availability of suitable acquisition candidates and of additional disposal well capacity and pipeline right-of-way; and the and ability to provide focused service attention to our customers. Future charges due to possible impairments of acquired assets may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and stock price. A portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill and other intangible assets, which may be subject to future impairment that would result in financial statement write-offs. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 22.1% of our total assets as of December 31, 2011. If there is a material change in our business operations or prospects, the value of our intangible assets, or those we may acquire in the future, could decrease significantly. On an ongoing basis and at least annually, we will evaluate whether the carrying value of our intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets, although not requiring any additional cash outlay, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our ability to succeed will largely depend upon the efforts of our directors and officers, and in particular our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Richard J. Heckmann. The loss of Mr. Heckmann could adversely affect our business and operations. Our ability to succeed is largely dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers and directors, especially Mr. Heckmann, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Even though we believe that our success depends largely on the continued services of Mr. Heckmann, we have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Heckmann, nor obtained “key man” life insurance. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that Mr. Heckmann will remain with the Company for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, though Mr. Heckmann has expressed a commitment of his full time efforts to our success, he is not required to commit any specified amount of time to the Company’s affairs and, as a result, he may have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business acquisitions and monitoring the related due diligence and closing process. The loss of the services of Mr. Heckmann or any other of our other executive officers and directors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully achieve our business objectives. We have had, and may have in the future, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and thereby cause a decline in our stock price. As of December 31, 2011, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC under the Exchange Act are recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and are accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief 13 Table of Contents Executive Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. However, we have had in the past and may have in the future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to address any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may have errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting deadlines, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. We are engaged in litigation and subject to an SEC inquiry relating to China Water and a negative outcome in any of these proceedings could materially adversely affect us. As described in greater detail in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report, we and certain of our directors and officers are involved in litigation arising from or relating to our China Water acquisition in October 2008, including a purported class action and a derivative action. In addition, on June 10, 2011, we received a subpoena from the Denver Regional Office of the SEC seeking information and documents concerning China Water. We are cooperating and intend to continue to cooperate fully with the SEC with respect to its requests. A negative outcome of the SEC inquiry could result in the SEC imposing fines or penalties on us, or requiring us to satisfy other remedies including modifications to business practices and implementing compliance programs. The litigation and the SEC inquiry are also causing us to incur substantial legal fees and expenses as well as requiring management time and involvement. The outcome of the litigation and the SEC inquiry are uncertain and, if adversely decided or settled against us or any of our officers or directors, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes to the fair market or carrying value of our investments in UGSI and Pacific Water could affect the value of these investments and any potential recordable income from the investments, which could result in a write down. As of December 31, 2011, we own approximately 7% of Underground Solutions, Inc., or “UGSI”, a supplier of water infrastructure pipeline products, which we acquired in 2009 for a total investment of $7.2 million dollars. We also have a 10% interest in Pacific Water, acquired in connection with Pacific Water’s acquisition of our current bottled water operations in 2011. There is no or limited liquidity in the stock of either company. Changes to the fair market or carrying value of our investments in UGSI and Pacific Water could affect the value of our investment and result in a substantial write down. Risks Related to Our Operations Our business depends on spending by the oil and natural gas industry in the United States, and this spending and our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. Declines in these expenditures, due to the low natural gas price environment or other factors, could result in project modification, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts owed to us. Customers’ expectations for lower market prices for oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may also cause our customers to curtail spending, thereby reducing demand for our services. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors, over which we have no control, including: • domestic and worldwide supplies of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil, including U.S. inventories of natural gas and oil reserves; • weather conditions; 14 Table of Contents • changes in the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities and processing facilities; • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including by commodity price speculators and others; • the price and level of foreign imports; • the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; and • Overall domestic and global economic and market conditions. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling activity by some of our customers or in some of the regions in which we operate. For example, natural gas spot prices have fallen significantly in late 2011 and the number of active drilling rigs operating in the Haynesville and Barnett Shale plays has declined over the past 12 months with many of these rigs moving to other areas including the Utica/Marcellus and Eagle Ford Shale plays. This reduction in activity may cause a decline in the demand for our services or adversely affect the price of our services, and the financial results of our operations, particularly if rigs are moved to areas in which we do not currently operate. In addition, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas also may have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced and the number of producing wells for us to service declines. Recent declines in natural gas prices have caused many oil and natural gas producers to announce reductions in capital budgets for future periods. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause these and other oil and natural gas producers to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices increase from current levels. These cuts in spending have curtailed drilling programs as well as discretionary spending on well services, which may result in a reduction in the demand for our services, the rates we can charge and our utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could become unable to pay their vendors and service providers, including us. Any of these conditions or events could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Significant capital expenditures are required to conduct our business. The development of our business and services, excluding acquisition activities, requires substantial capital expenditures. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we made capital expenditures of approximately $148.9 million. We fund our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings under our bank credit facilities and, to the extent those sources are not sufficient, we may fund capital expenditures from the proceeds of debt and equity issuances. Future cash flows from operations are subject to a number of risks and variables, such as the level of production of our customers, prices of natural gas and oil, and the other risk factors discussed herein. Our ability to obtain capital from other sources, such as the capital markets, is dependent upon many of those same factors as well as the orderly functioning of credit and capital markets. To the extent we fail to have adequate funds, we could be required to reduce our capital spending, or pursue other funding alternatives, which in turn could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Any interruption in our services due to pipeline ruptures or spills or necessary maintenance could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand. Our water transport pipelines are susceptible to ruptures and spills and require ongoing maintenance. We may experience difficulties in maintaining the operation of our pipelines, thereby causing downtime and delays. For example, in 2010, we had breaks in our 50-mile pipeline in eastern Texas that resulted in a delay in transporting our customers’ water. While we have announced plans to add a new pipeline for additional capacity and operational efficiencies, any interruption in our services due to pipeline breakdowns or necessary maintenance could reduce sales revenues and earnings. Transportation interruptions at our pipelines, even if only temporary, could severely harm our business and reputation. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may not be fully covered under our insurance policies. Our operations are subject to operational hazards, including accidents or equipment issues that can cause pollution and other damage to the environment. For example, produced water from our pipelines has leaked into private property on several occasions. As required pursuant to applicable law, we remediated the environmental impact, including related to site investigation and soil, groundwater and surface water cleanup. In addition, hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, pollution and other damage to the environment, fires and hydrocarbon spills, may delay or halt operations at extraction sites which we service. These conditions can cause: • personal injury or loss of life; • liabilities from pipeline breaks and accidents by our fleet of trucks and other equipment; • damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment; and • The suspension of operations. The occurrence of a significant event or a series of events that together are significant, or adverse claims in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that are not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the well services industry. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. We maintain insurance coverage that we believe to be customary in the industry against these hazards. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. In addition, insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject or, even if available, it may be inadequate or insurance premiums or other costs could make such insurance prohibitively expensive. It is likely that, in our insurance renewals, our premiums and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or considerably more expensive than it has been in the recent past. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits, and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety, transportation, and protection of natural resources and the environment. Under these laws and regulations, we may become liable for significant penalties, damages or costs of remediation. Any changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Our operations, and those of our customers, are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety, transportation and protection of natural resources and the environment, including those relating to waste management and transportation and disposal of produced-water and other 16 Table of Contents materials. For example, we are subject to environmental regulation relating to disposal into injection wells, which can pose some risks of environmental liability, including leakage from the wells to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Liability under these laws and regulations could result in cancellation of well operations, fines and penalties, expenditures for remediation, and liability for property damage and personal injuries. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the assessment of significant administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, and orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict and/or joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. Future events, such as the discovery of currently unknown matters, spills caused by future pipeline ruptures, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, may give rise to additional expenditures or liabilities, which could impair our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies (such as wind, solar, geothermal, fuel cells and biofuels) that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, technological changes could decrease the quantities of water required for hydrofracturing operations or otherwise affect demand for our services. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing, including regulation of the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal, could result in reduction in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells or minimize water use or disposal, which could adversely impact the demand for our services. Demand for our services depends, in large part, on the level of exploration and production of oil and gas and the oil and gas industry’s willingness to purchase our services. Most of our customer base uses hydraulic fracturing to drill new oil and gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing is a process that is used to release hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from certain geological formations. The process involves the injection of water (typically mixed with significant quantities of sand and small quantities of chemical additives) under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate movement of hydrocarbons through the formation. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and has been exempt (except when the fracturing fluids or propping agents contain diesel fuels) since 2005 from United States federal regulation pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act. The EPA is conducting a comprehensive study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The results of the EPA study and House investigation could lead to restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. The EPA is currently working on new guidance for application of the Safe Drinking Water Act permits for drilling or completing processes that use fracturing fluids or propping agents containing diesel fuels. In addition, the EPA proposed regulations under the federal Clean Air Act in July 2011 regarding certain criteria and hazardous air pollutant emissions from hydraulic fracturing wells and, in October 2011, announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the federal Clean Water Act to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other gas production. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, including, for example, requiring disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process or seeking to repeal the exemption from the Safe Drinking Water Act. If adopted, such legislation would add an additional level of regulation and necessary permitting at 17 Table of Contents the federal level and could make it more difficult to complete wells using hydraulic fracturing. Similar laws and regulations with respect to chemical disclosure also exist or are being considered by the United States Department of Interior and in several states, including certain states in which we operate, that could restrict hydraulic fracturing. The Delaware River Basin Commission is also considering regulations which may impact hydrofracturing water practices in certain areas of Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey and Delaware. Some local governments have also sought to restrict drilling in certain areas. Future United States federal, state or local laws or regulations could significantly restrict, or increase costs associated with hydraulic fracturing and make it more difficult or costly for producers to conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, which could result in a decline in exploration and production. New laws and regulations, and new enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, could also expressly restrict the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal in hydraulic fracturing and otherwise increase our costs and our customers’ cost of compliance, which could minimize water use and disposal needs even if other limits on drilling and completing new wells were not imposed. Any decline in exploration and production or any restrictions on water use and disposal could result in a decline in demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Delays or restrictions in obtaining permits by our customers for their operations or by us for our operations could impair our business. In most states, our customers are required to obtain permits from one or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities and we may be required to procure permits for construction and operation of our disposal wells and pipelines. Such permits are typically required by state agencies, but can also be required by federal and local governmental agencies. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location where our or our customers’, activities will be conducted. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions which may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. Delays or restrictions in obtaining salt water disposal well permits could adversely impact our growth, which is dependent in part on new disposal capacity. Recently, our customers have been affected by moratoriums on the issuance of permits that have been imposed upon drilling and completion activities in certain jurisdictions. For example, in December 2010, the State of New York imposed a moratorium on certain drilling and completion activities. In 2011, the state announced plans to lift the moratorium, however, there is a proposal in the New York legislature to extend the moratorium for another year. A similar moratorium has been in place within the Delaware River Basin pending issuance of regulations by the Delaware River Basin Commission. Other states, including Texas, Arkansas, Pennsylvania, Wyoming and Colorado, have enacted laws and regulations applicable to our business activities including disclosure of information regarding the substances used in hydraulic fracturing. California is presently considering similar requirements. Some of the drilling and completion activities of our customers may take place on federal land, requiring leases from the federal government to conduct such drilling and completion activities. In some cases, federal agencies have cancelled oil and natural gas leases on federal lands. Consequently, our operations in certain areas of the country may be interrupted or suspended for varying lengths of time, causing a loss of revenue and potentially having a materially adverse effect on our operations. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the trucking safety regulations, which are likely to be amended, and made stricter, as part of the initiative known as Compliance, Safety, Accountability, or “CSA.” If our current USDOT safety rating of “Satisfactory” is downgraded in connection with this initiative, our business and results of our operations may be adversely affected. As part of the CSA initiative, the FMCSA is expected to open a rulemaking docket in 2012 (originally expected in 2011) for purposes of changing its safety rating methodology. Any new methodology adopted in the rulemaking is likely to link safety ratings more closely to roadside inspection and driver violation data gathered 18 Table of Contents and analyzed from month to month under the FMCSA’s new Safety Measurement System, or “SMS.” This linkage could result in greater variability in safety ratings than the current system, in which a safety rating is based on relatively infrequent on-site compliance audits at a carrier’s places of business. Preliminary studies by transportation consulting firms indicate that “Satisfactory” -ratings (or any equivalent under a new SMS-based system) may become more difficult to achieve and maintain under such a system. If we lose our current “Satisfactory” rating, which is the highest and best rating under this initiative, we may lose some of our customer contracts that require such a rating, adversely affecting our business prospects and results of operations. Seasonal weather conditions and natural disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and harm our business. We operate in the southern, mid-western and eastern United States. These areas are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the winter and spring. During periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, our customers may curtail their operations or we may be unable to move our trucks between locations or provide other services, thereby reducing demand for, or our ability to provide services and generate revenues. For example, many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our customers’ jobsites in the spring due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws, limiting our access and our ability to provide service in these areas. In February 2011, portions of Texas had record snowfalls. In September 2011, portions of Pennsylvania had record rainfall and flooding. During those periods, we and our customers had to significantly reduce or halt operations, resulting in a loss of revenue. In addition, the regions in which we operate have in the past been, and may in the future be, affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, windstorms, floods tornadoes and droughts, causing disruptions in our and our customers’ operations. Future natural disasters or inclement weather conditions could severely disrupt the normal operation of our or our customers’ business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. We require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. In periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. This could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. Increases in driver compensation or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers could adversely affect our profitability. During 2011, we increased the number of truck drivers employed with us to approximately 670 as of December 31, 2011, compared to approximately 200 as of December 31, 2010. Maintaining a staff of qualified truck drivers is critical to the success of our operations. We have in the past experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers. A shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other companies may create difficulties in some regions. The compensation we offer our drivers is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to increase driver compensation and /or modify the benefits provided to our employees in future periods. In addition, we and other companies in the oil and gas industry suffer from a high turnover rate of drivers. The high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified drivers, we could be forced to, among other things, adjust our compensation packages, increase the number of our trucks without drivers, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting customer demands, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Additionally, in anticipation of or in response to geographical fluctuations in the demand for our services, it may be necessary from time to time to relocate our equipment and personnel from one shale area to another, which may result in operating inefficiencies and increased labor, fuel and other operating costs which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the future and stockholders may be adversely affected by the issuance of those shares. We may raise additional capital by issuing shares of common stock, which will increase the number of common shares outstanding and may result in dilution in the equity interest of our current stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-4 with the SEC which allows us, in connection with acquisitions, to issue up to 15.0 million shares of common stock that are freely tradable upon issuance. As of March 5, 2012, we had 13.4 million shares of our common stock available for issuance under this registration statement. We have also filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 which, upon effectiveness, would allow us to issue up to $400.0 million in debt, equity and hybrid securities. In addition, we have issued shares of our common stock pursuant to private placement exemptions from Securities Act registration requirements, including in connection with acquisitions, and may do so in the future. The issuance, and the resale or potential resale, of shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and could be dilutive to our stockholders depending on the performance of the acquired business and other factors. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our securities. The stock markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements; • changes in the price of oil and natural gas; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and • additions or departures of key personnel. The trading price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange, or “NYSE,” since our initial public offering has ranged from a high of $10.74 on September 3, 2008 to a low of $3.30 on July 10, 2009. The last reported price of our common stock on the NYSE on March 5, 2012 was $5.26 per share. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock, and restrictions and covenants in our commercial credit facilities may prohibit us from paying dividends now or in the future. While we may declare dividends at some point in the future, subject to compliance with such restrictions and covenants, we cannot assure you that you will ever receive cash dividends as a result of ownership of our common stock and any gains from investment in our common stock may only come from increases in our stock prices, if any. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to anti-takeover effects of certain charter and bylaw provisions and Delaware law, as well as of our substantial insider ownership. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended and restated, and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management and board of directors. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • establishing a classified board of directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year; • providing our board of directors the ability to set the number of directors and to fill vacancies on the board of directors occurring between stockholder meetings; • providing that directors may only be removed only for “cause” and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority in voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock; and • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years following the date the beneficial owner acquired at least 15% of our stock, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures, as well as the significant common stock beneficially owned by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard J. Heckmann, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. Risks Related to Our Debt We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, general economic and financial conditions, competition in the markets where we operate, the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. This risk could be exacerbated by any economic downturn or instability in United States and global credit markets. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other capital needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: • refinancing or restructuring our debt; • selling assets; 21 Table of Contents • reducing or delaying acquisitions or capital investments; or • seeking to raise additional capital. We may not be able to implement alternative financing plans, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and implementing any such alternative financing plans may not allow us to meet our debt obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to obtain alternative financings, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects for growth. In addition, a downgrade in our credit rating would make it more difficult for us to raise additional debt financing in the future. However, such a credit downgrade would not have an effect on our currently outstanding senior secured credit facility. The amount of our debt and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. At December 31, 2011, we had $144.1 million of outstanding indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences for our operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; • limiting management’s flexibility in operating our business; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • diminishing our ability to withstand successfully a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because certain debt will vary with prevailing interest rates. We may be required to repay all or a portion of our debt on an accelerated basis in certain circumstances. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in the agreements governing our debt, it could lead to an event of default and the consequent acceleration of our obligation to repay outstanding debt. Our ability to comply with debt covenants and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic and financial conditions. In particular, under the terms of our indebtedness, we must comply with certain financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, several of which become more restrictive over time and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or take some other action in order to comply with them. Our ability to satisfy required financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet those ratios and tests in the future. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios or tests could result in a default under our indebtedness. If we default, our credit facility lenders will no longer be obligated to extend credit to us and they could elect to declare 22 Table of Contents all amounts outstanding under the indenture or senior secured credit facility, as applicable, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. The results of such actions would have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility bear interest at variable rates, exposing us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 