ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that Management believes may affect our business are described below. Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that Management is not aware of or focused on or that Management currently deems immaterial may also impair business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our Earnings are Significantly Influenced by General Business and Economic Conditions We are operating in an uncertain economic environment. While there are signs of economic conditions improving, the persistent high unemployment rate, weak business and consumer spending, the U.S. budget deficit and uncertainty in European economies underline that the economy remains very fragile. Economic recovery is expected to be slow and long. The housing market is not expected to recover soon amid a bleak job market. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly affected. Local and state governments are in difficulty due to the reduction in sales taxes resulting from the lack of consumer spending and property taxes resulting from declining property values. Financial institutions continue to be affected by the contraction of the real estate market, elevated foreclosure rates, long-term high unemployment and underemployment rates and a stricter regulatory environment. While our market areas have not experienced the same degree of challenge in unemployment as other areas2, the effects of these issues have trickled down to households and businesses in our markets. There can be no assurance that the recent economic improvement is sustainable and credit worthiness of our borrowers will not deteriorate. Continued declines in real estate values and home sale volumes, financial stress on borrowers, including job losses, and customers’ inability to pay debt could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the following aspects: ● Demand for our products and services may decline ● Low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease ● Collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline further in value ● Loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase. Our deposit growth level has outpaced our loan growth recently, which leads to excess liquidity earning a less favorable yield. As the economy is still vulnerable, businesses are wary about capital expenditures or expansion of working capital and consumers are de-leveraging their debts. Hence, we have noticed a low level of loan demand due to an unfavorable economic climate and intensified competition for creditworthy borrowers, all of which could impact our ability to generate profitable loans. Nonperforming Assets Take Significant Time To Resolve And Adversely Affect Our Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. Our nonperforming assets have been maintained at a manageable level historically. As discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report, we acquired certain assets of the failed Charter Oak Bank on February 18, 2011. The Acquisition may expose us to credit issues of acquired assets, which may become nonperforming in the future. 2 Based on the latest available labor market information from Employment Development Department. Preliminary December 2011 results show that the unemployment rate in Marin County was the lowest in California at 6.5%. The unemployment rates in Sonoma and Napa County are 8.9% and 9.0%, compared to the state of California at 10.9%. Page - 9 Table of Contents Nonperforming assets may adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur elevated losses relating to nonperforming assets. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, thereby adversely affecting our income and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. While we have tried to reduce our problem assets through workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial conditions, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. Purchased Loans from the Acquisition May Lose Value if the Estimated Fair Value is Inaccurate Our determination regarding the fair value of loans purchased in the Acquisition could be inaccurate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. The timing and amount of future expected cash flows is hence subject to a great degree of uncertainty. Increases in the amount of future losses in response to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio may result in increased credit loss provisions and could have a negative impact on our operating results. Recently Enacted Legislation and Other Measures Undertaken by the Government May not Help Stabilize the U.S. Financial System and The Impact of New Financial Reform Legislation is Yet to be Determined As discussed in Item 1, Section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” above, in 2010, President Obama signed into law a landmark financial reform bill—the Dodd-Frank Act. The rules under the Dodd-Frank Act may change banking statutes and the operating environment of Bancorp and the Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could increase the cost of doing business, decrease our revenues, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance depending upon whether or how regulations are implemented. We may be forced to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes related to the Dodd-Frank Act and any regulations promulgated there under. The ultimate effect of the changes would have on the financial condition or results of operations of Bancorp or the Bank is uncertain at this time. The actual impact of the recently enacted legislation and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the aftermaths of the credit crisis is unknown. The capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption at an unprecedented level in the past few years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the recent years’ disruption and volatility return, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect on our ability to access credit or capital. In addition to changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, recent rules published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, could lead to significantly higher capital requirements, higher capital charges and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. On September 28, 2011, the Basel Committee upheld its view to require an additional loss absorbency amount ranging from 1% to 2.5% on tier 1 capital for global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”). While we are not a G-SIB, general expectations of key stakeholders are that the Basel rules will trickle down and affect smaller banks like us, and therefore increase our capital requirements, particularly the tier one common equity ratio, in the future. As a result, it may affect the results of our financial condition or business’ prospects in the future. The Recent Repeal of Federal Prohibitions on Payment of Interest on Demand Deposits Could Increase Our Interest Expense On July 21, 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act lifted the prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits. Financial institutions can start paying interest on demand deposits in an effort to compete for deposits. Although we do not currently pay interest on business demand deposits and the current low interest rate environment may delay any significant change in interest rates offered by our main competitors, we may experience increases to our interest expense and interest rate sensitivity and an overall decrease in the net interest margin if we are to offer interest on demand deposits to attract or retain customers in the future. As a result, it may affect the results of our financial condition, or business’ prospects in the future, especially when interest rates begin to rise. Page - 10 Table of Contents We May Experience Unfavorable Outcomes with Growth We seek to expand our franchise safely and consistently. A successful growth strategy requires us to manage multiple aspects of the business simultaneously, such as following adequate loan underwriting standards, balancing loan and deposit growth without increasing interest rate risk or compressing our net interest margin, maintaining sufficient capital, and recruiting, training and retaining qualified professionals. We have recently expanded into the Napa and the greater Sonoma markets, which may have characteristics unfamiliar to us. We may also experience a lag in profitability associated with the new branch openings. Our growth strategy also includes merger and acquisition opportunities that either enhance our market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. As discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statement in Item 8 of this report, we acquired certain assets and certain liabilities of Napa-based Charter Oak Bank on February 18, 2011 through an FDIC-assisted transaction. While FDIC-assisted acquisitions provide attractive opportunities in part due to loans purchased at significant discounts, acquiring other banks or branches involves risks such as exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company, potential disruption to our normal business activities and diversion of Management’s time and attention due to integration and conversion efforts. If we pursue our growth strategy too aggressively and fail to execute integration properly, we may not be able to achieve expected synergies or other anticipated benefits. Interchange Reimbursement Fees and Related Practices Have Been Receiving Significant Legal and Regulatory Scrutiny, and the Resulting Regulations Could Have a Significant Impact on Interchange Fees We Earn The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions that regulate the debit interchange rates and certain other network industry practices (the “Durbin Amendment”). In addition, the FRB now has the power to regulate network fees to the extent necessary to prevent evasion of the new rules on interchange rates. The FRB issued a rule to restrict interchange fees on debit cards to 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction for institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. Interchange represents a transfer of value between the financial institutions participating in payment networks such as Visa and NYCE, in which we participate. In connection with transactions initiated with cards in a payments system, interchange reimbursement fees are typically paid to issuers, the financial institutions such as us that issue debit cards to cardholders. They are typically paid by network owners, the financial institutions that offer network connectivity and payment acceptance services to merchants. Despite the statutory attempt to separate out smaller banks from the price controls embodied in the Durbin amendment, the marketplace may drive business to the lowest cost option. Merchants may switch to lower-cost cards and accounts of larger institutions, applying downward pressure on the fees paid to small institutions to compete. In January 2010, Visa announced that it will implement a two-tiered pricing system for debit interchange – one for banks with more than $10 billion in assets, and one for all those under the $10 billion threshold. There is no obligation for networks, such as Visa, to maintain their multiple-tier pricing structure. Community banks such as us may ultimately be harmed as a result. We may be forced to charge lower fees to customers, affecting our profitability. Owners of networks in which we do not participate could elect to charge higher discount rates to merchants, leading merchants not to accept cards for payment, or to steer Visa cardholders to alternate payment systems, hence reducing our transaction volumes. Page - 11 Table of Contents Negative Conditions Affecting Real Estate May Harm Our Business Concentration of our lending activities in the California real estate sector could negatively impact our results of operations if the adverse changes in the real estate market in our lending area intensify. Although we do not offer traditional first mortgages, nor have sub-prime or Alt-A residential loans or significant amount of securities backed by such loans in the portfolio, we are not immune from the effect of the set-back of the real estate market. Approximately 85% of our loans were secured by real estate at December 31, 2011, of which 61% were secured by commercial real estate and the remaining 24% by residential real estate. Real estate valuations are impacted by demand, and demand is driven by factors such as employment; when unemployment rises, demand drops. The unemployment rate has stayed at an elevated level since 2009. Most of the properties that secure our loans are located within Marin, San Francisco and Sonoma Counties. While we have seen improvement in real estate sales volume, the selling prices continue to be at a distressed level3. Loans secured by commercial real estate include those secured by small office buildings, owner-user office/warehouses, mixed-use residential/commercial properties and retail properties. In 2011, office vacancy rates in Marin County have fallen from 25.7% to 23.3%, while industrial vacancy rates have risen from 5.9% to 7.8% and retail rates have fallen slightly from 5.5% to 5.1%4. In Sonoma County, vacancy rates are generally higher than in Marin County: the rate of industrial, retail, and office vacancies changed from 13.9%, 8.5%, and 22.3% in 2010 to 13.7%, 6.6%, and 23.3% in 2011, respectively4. There can be no assurance that the companies or properties securing our loans will generate sufficient cash flows to allow the borrowers to make full and timely loan payments to us. In late 2006, Federal banking regulators issued final guidance regarding commercial real estate lending to address a concern that rising commercial real estate lending concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in the investor commercial real estate market. This guidance suggests that institutions that are potentially exposed to significant commercial real estate concentration risk will be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. Institutions that have experienced rapid growth in commercial real estate lending, have notable exposure to a specific type of commercial real estate lending, or are approaching or exceed certain supervisory criteria that measure an institution’s commercial real estate portfolio against its capital levels, may be subject to such increased regulatory scrutiny. Although regulators have not notified us of any concern, there is no assurance that we will not be subject to additional scrutiny in the future. We are Subject to Interest Rate Risk Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors outside our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. Our portfolio of securities is subject to interest rate risk and will generally decline in value if market interest rates increase, and generally increase in value if market interest rates decline. Our mortgage-backed security portfolio is also subject to prepayment risk in a low interest rate environment. In response to the recessionary state of the national economy, the gloomy housing market and the volatility of financial markets, the Federal Open Market Committee of the FRB (“FOMC”) started a series of decreases in Federal funds target rate with seven decreases in 2008, bringing the target rate to a historically low range of 0% to 0.25% through December 2011. In their statement after the first FOMC meeting in 2012, they expect the exceptionally low interest rates to continue through 2014. Interest rate changes can create fluctuations in the net interest margin due to an imbalance in the timing of repricing or maturity of assets or liabilities. We manage interest rate risk exposure with the goal of minimizing the impact of interest rate volatility on the net interest margin. Although we believe we have implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, any substantial, prolonged low interest rate environment could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See the sections captioned “Net Interest Income” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk in Item 7A of this report for further discussion related to management of interest rate risk. 3 Home sales were up 5.3% in Marin County and 9.6% in Sonoma County in 2011. 4 Based on the latest available real estate information from Keegan & Coppin Company, Inc. Page - 12 Table of Contents In the current environment of historically low interest rates, it is important for us to mitigate exposure to future increases in interest rates. If interest rates rise by more than 100 basis points, we anticipate that net interest income will rise assuming no additional deposit rate sensitivity. However, it may still take several upward market rate movements for variable rate loans at floors to move above their floor rates. Further, a rise in index rates leads to lower debt service coverage of variable rate loans if the borrower’s operating cash flow doesn’t also rise. This creates a leveraged paradox of an improving economy (leading to higher interest rates), but lower credit quality as short-term rates move up faster than the cash flow or income of the borrowers. Higher interest rates may also depress loan demand, making it more difficult for us to grow loans. We are Subject to Significant Credit Risk and Loan Losses May Exceed Our Allowance for Loan Losses in the Future We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents Management’s best estimate of probable losses that may be incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance reflects Management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality and present economic, political and regulatory conditions. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Further, we generally rely on appraisals of the collateral or comparable sales data to determine the level of specific reserve and/or the charge-off amount on certain collateral dependent loans. Inaccurate assumptions in the appraisals or an inappropriate choice of the valuation techniques may lead to an inadequate level of specific reserve or charge-offs. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans and their collateral, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses or the cashflows from the acquired loans do not perform as expected, we will need to record additional provision for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in an adverse impact on net income and capital. We Face Intense Competition with Other Financial Institutions to Attract and Retain Banking Customers We are facing significant competition for customers from other banks and financial institutions located in the markets we serve. We compete with commercial banks, saving banks, credit unions, non-bank financial services companies and other financial institutions operating within or near our serving areas. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations as we are, thus, they are able to offer greater flexibility in competing for business. We anticipate intense competition will be continued for the coming year due to the recent consolidation of many financial institutions and more changes in legislature, regulation and technology. Further, we expect loan demand to continue to be challenging due to the uncertain economic climate and the intensifying competition for creditworthy borrowers, both of which could lead to loan rate concession pressure and could impact our ability to generate profitable loans. Going forward, we may see tighter competition in the industry as banks seek to take market share in the most profitable customer segments, particularly the small business segment and the mass-affluent segment, which offers a rich source of deposits as well as more profitable and less risky customer relationships. Further, with the rebound of the equity markets, our deposit customers may perceive alternative investment opportunities as providing superior expected returns. Technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments or other deposit accounts such as online virtual banks and non-bank service providers. The current low interest rate environment could increase such transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits or other investments. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When our customers move money into higher yielding deposits or in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs. Page - 13 Table of Contents We also compete with nation-wide and regional banks much larger than our size, which may be able to benefit from economies of scale through their wider branch network, national advertising campaigns and sophisticated technology infrastructure. We intend to seek additional deposits by continuing to establish and strengthen our personal relationships with our existing customers and by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets. If these efforts are unsuccessful, we may need to fund our asset growth through borrowings, other non-core funding or public offerings of our common stock which could be leveraged. Increased debt would further increase our leverage, reduce our borrowing capacity and increase our reliance on non-core funds and counterparties’ credit availability. A public offering may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership. Our Ability to Access Markets for Funding and Acquire and Retain Customers Could be Adversely Affected by the Deterioration of Other Financial Institutions or the Financial Service Industry’s Reputation Reputation risk is the risk to liquidity, earnings and capital arising from negative publicity regarding the financial services industry. The financial services industry continues to be featured in negative headlines about their roles in the past global and national credit crisis and the resulting stabilization legislation enacted by the U.S. federal government. These reports can be damaging to the industry’s image and potentially erode consumer confidence in insured financial institutions. Bank failures in California, including in our own markets, have had a negative impact and additional failures are expected. In addition, our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a direct or indirect result of other banks’ difficulties or failure, which would increase the capital we need to support such growth or we could experience severe and unexpected decreases in deposits which could adversely impact our liquidity and heighten regulatory concern. Bancorp and the Bank are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision Bancorp and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision, regulation and control. Holding company regulations affect the range of activities in which Bancorp is engaged. Banking regulations affect the Bank’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices and dividend policy among other controls. Future legislative changes or interpretations may also alter the structure and competitive relationship among financial institutions. Legislation is regularly introduced in the U.S Congress and the California Legislature which would impact our operating environment in perhaps substantial and unpredictable ways. The nature and extent of future legislative and regulatory changes affecting us is unpredictable at this time. The historic disruptions in the financial marketplace over the past few years have prompted the Obama administration to reform the financial market regulation. This reform includes additional regulations over consumer financial products, bond rating agencies and the creation of a regime for regulating systemic risk across all types of financial service firms. In light of recent economic conditions as well as regulatory and congressional criticism, further restrictions on financial service companies may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition, as well as increase our compliance risk. Compliance risk is the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from violations of, or nonconformance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, internal policies, and procedures, or ethical standards set forth by regulators. Compliance risk also arises in situations where the laws or rules governing certain bank products or activities of our clients may be ambiguous or untested. This risk exposes Bancorp and the Bank to potential fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can lead to diminished reputation, reduced franchise value, limited business opportunities, reduced expansion potential and an inability to enforce contracts. For further information on supervision and regulation, see the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 above. Page - 14 Table of Contents Bancorp Relies on Dividends from the Bank to Pay Cash Dividends to Shareholders Bancorp is a separate legal entity from its subsidiary, the Bank. Bancorp receives substantially all of its revenue from the Bank in the form of dividends, which is Bancorp’s principal source of funds to pay cash dividends to Bancorp’s common shareholders. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to Bancorp. In the event that the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Bancorp, Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends to its shareholders. As a result, it could have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s stock price and investment value. Under federal law, capital distributions from the Bank would become prohibited, with limited exceptions, if the Bank were categorized as "undercapitalized" under applicable FRB or FDIC regulations. In addition, as a California bank, the Bank is subject to state law restrictions on the payment of dividends. For further information on the distribution limit from the Bank to Bancorp, see the section captioned “Bank Regulation” in Item 1 above and “Dividends” in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below. The Trading Volume of Bancorp’s Common Stock is Less than That of Other Larger Financial Services Companies Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ’s Capital Market. Our trading volume is less than that of nationwide or regional financial institutions. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence of willing buyers and sellers of common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant trades of our stock in a given time, or the expectations of these trades, could cause the stock price to be more volatile. Failure of Correspondent Banks and Counterparties May Affect our Liquidity In the past few years, the financial services industry in general was materially and adversely affected by the credit crises. We have witnessed failure of banks in the industry in recent years and the trend is expected to continue. We rely on our correspondent banks for lines of credit. We also have two correspondent banks as counterparties in our derivative transactions (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). While we continually monitor the financial health of our correspondent banks and we have diverse sources of liquidity, should any one of our correspondent banks become financially impaired, our available credit may decline and/or they may be unable to honor their commitments. Unexpected Early Termination of Our Interest Rate Swap Agreements May Impact Our Earnings We have entered into interest-rate swap agreements, primarily as an asset/liability management strategy, in order to mitigate the changes in the fair value of specified long-term fixed-rate loans and firm commitments to enter into long-term fixed-rate loans caused by changes in interest rates. These hedges allow us to offer long-term fixed rate loans to customers without assuming the interest rate risk of a long-term asset by swapping our fixed-rate interest stream for a floating-rate interest stream. In the event of default by the borrowers on our hedged loans, we may have to terminate these designated interest-rate swap agreements early, resulting in severe prepayment penalties charged by our counterparties. On the other hand, when these interest-rate swap agreements are in an asset position, we are subject to the credit risk of our counterparties, who may default on the interest-rate swap agreements, leaving us vulnerable to interest rate movements. Securities May Lose Value due to Credit Quality of the Issuers We hold securities issued and/or guaranteed by Federal National Mortgage Association (“FNMA”) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“FHLMC”). In 2008, the U.S. Government placed both FNMA and FHLMC under conservatorship. Starting in December 2008, the U.S. Government also began purchasing mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) issued by FNMA. Further, in December 2009, the U.S. Treasury also announced unlimited capital support for FNMA and FHLMC for the next three years. As a result, the MBS issued by FNMA and FHLMC has experienced an increase in fair value and our available-for-sale security portfolio has benefitted from this government support. However, the Obama administration released its report to Congress on reforming the housing-finance market on February 11, 2011. The proposal would wind down FNMA and FHLMC and incrementally shrink the government’s housing-finance footprint by, among other things, gradually increasing the firms’ guarantee pricing, reducing their conforming loan limits, and phasing in a 10-percent down-payment requirement. When the U.S. Government starts selling the MBS securities issued by FNMA and FHLMC, when the government support is phased-out or completely withdrawn, or if either the FNMA or FHLMC comes under further financial stress or deteriorates in their credit worthiness, the fair value of our securities issued or guaranteed by these entities could be negatively affected. Page - 15 Table of Contents We also invest in obligations of state and political subdivisions, some of which are experiencing financial difficulties in part due to loss of property tax from falling home values and declines in sales tax revenues from a reduction in retail activities. The 2009 federal stimulus plan funds flowing out to state governments across the country are running down and are expected to continue to decline and be fully utilized by 2013. State and political subdivisions are expected to undergo further financial stress due to the reduced federal funding. While we seek to minimize our exposure by diversifying geographic location of our portfolio and investing in investment grade securities, there is no guarantee that the issuers will remain financially sound to be current with their payments on these debentures. Deterioration of Credit Quality or Insolvency of Insurance Companies May Impede our Ability to Recover Losses The recent financial crisis has led certain major insurance companies to the verge of bankruptcy. We have property, casualty and financial institution risk coverage underwritten by several insurance companies, who may not avoid the insolvency risk permeating the insurance industry. In addition, some of our investment in obligations of state and political subdivisions is insured by several insurance companies. While we closely monitor credit ratings of our insurers and insurers of our municipality securities, and we are poised to make quick changes if needed, we cannot predict an unexpected inability to honor commitments. We also invest in bank-owned life insurance policies on certain members of senior management, which may lose value in the event of the carriers’ insolvency. In the event that our bank-owned life insurance policy carriers’ credit ratings fall below investment grade, we may exchange policies underwritten by them to another carrier at a cost charged by the original carrier, or we may terminate the policies which may result in adverse tax consequences. Our loan portfolio is also primarily secured by properties located in earthquake or fire-prone zones. In the event of a disaster that causes pervasive damage to the region in which we operate, not only the Bank, but also the loan collateral may suffer losses not recovered by insurance. We Rely on Technology and Continually Encounter Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology will enable efficiency and meeting customer’s changing needs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to retain and compete for customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact of the long-term aspect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We May Experience a Breach in Cyber-security Our business requires the secure handling of sensitive client information. We also rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Cyber incidents include intentional attacks or unintentional events that can include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems to disrupt operations, corrupting data, stealing sensitive information or causing denial-of-service on our Web sites. We store, process and transmit account information in connection with lending and deposit relationships, including funds transfer and online banking. A breach of cyber-security systems of the Bank, our vendors or customers, or widely publicized breaches of other financial institutions could significantly harm our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. While we have systems and procedures designed to prevent security breaches, we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our networks or proprietary client information. Page - 16 Table of Contents We Rely on Third-Party Vendors for Important Aspects of Our Operation We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information provided by certain key vendors, including but not limited to data processing, payroll processing, technology support, investment security safekeeping and accounting. Our ability to operate, as well as our financial condition and results of operations, could be negatively affected in the event of an interruption of an information system, an undetected error, or in the event of a natural disaster whereby certain vendors are unable to maintain business continuity. We May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Key Employees Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire skilled people or retain them. We do not currently have non-competitive agreements with any of our senior officers. The unexpected loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of the skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters or Other Climate Change Related Matters Could Significantly Impact Our Business Our primary market is located in an earthquake-prone zone in northern California. Other severe weather or disasters, such as severe rainstorms, wildfire or flood, could interrupt our business operations unexpectedly. Climate-related physical changes and hazards could also pose credit risks for us. For example, our borrowers may have collateral properties located in coastal areas at risk to rise in sea level. The properties pledged as collateral on our loan portfolio could also be damaged by tsunamis, floods, earthquake or wildfires and thereby the recoverability of our loan could be impaired. A number of factors affect our credit losses, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent of damage not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure to us. Lastly, there could be increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in the availability of coverage, due to severe weather-related losses. The ultimate impact on our business of a natural disaster, whether or not caused by climate change, is difficult to predict. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 