ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks and factors listed below, however, are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on 10-K include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. In addition, we are subject to legal and regulatory changes. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company We may not be able to grow successfully through future acquisitions or successfully manage future growth, and we may not be able to effectively integrate the businesses we do acquire. Our business strategy includes growth through the acquisitions of other businesses in both our Fluids Management and Recycling Divisions. We may not be able to continue to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or successfully acquire those opportunities identified. In order to complete acquisitions, we would expect to require additional debt and/or equity financing, which could increase our interest expense, leverage and shares outstanding. In addition, we may not be successful in integrating current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention. 11 Table of Contents Even if we are successful in integrating our current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies or earnings gains`, that we expected from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of our capital resources without the expected returns on such capital. Also, competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making further acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making additional acquisitions. Additional risks related to our acquisition strategy include, but are not limited to: • the potential disruption of our existing businesses; • entering new markets or industries in which we have limited prior experience; • difficulties integrating and retaining key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel or diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to integration matters; • difficulties integrating or expanding information technology systems and other business processes or administrative infrastructures to accommodate the acquired businesses; • complexities associated with managing the combined businesses and consolidating multiple physical locations; • risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; and • whether any necessary additional debt or equity financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and the impact of such financing on our operating performance and earnings per share. We may not be able to successfully integrate or realize the anticipated benefits of our merger with Power Fuels or acquisition of TFI and may not be able to maintain or achieve profitability of the acquired businesses or overall. Although we have completed a number of smaller acquisitions since mid-2010, Power Fuels and TFI represent, by far, the largest additions to our business. The integration and consolidation of Power Fuels and TFI has and will continue to require substantial management, financial and logistical and other resources. While we believe that we have sufficient resources to integrate these businesses successfully, such integration involves a number of significant risks, including diversion of management’s attention and resources. Moreover, there can be no assurance as to the extent to which the anticipated benefits of these transactions will be realized, if at all, or that significant time and cost beyond that anticipated will not be required in connection with the integration of TFI and the continuing operation of the Power Fuels and TFI businesses. If we are unable to integrate and manage TFI successfully, or to achieve a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions within the time frames anticipated by management and within budget, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The merger with Power Fuels and our acquisition of TFI makes evaluating our operating results difficult given the significance of these transactions, and historical and unaudited pro forma financial information may not give you an accurate indication of how we will perform in the future. Our acquisition activities, in particular the Power Fuels merger and the acquisition of TFI, may make it more difficult for us to evaluate and predict our future operating performance. Neither our historical results of operations, nor the separate pre-acquisition financial information of Power Fuels or TFI, give effect to those transactions; accordingly, such historical financial information does not necessarily reflect what our, Power Fuels’ or TFI’s financial position, operating results and cash flows will be in the future on a consolidated basis following consummation of those transactions. Unaudited pro forma financial information giving effect to the Power Fuels merger and the TFI acquisition does not represent, and should not be relied upon as reflecting, what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows actually would have been if the transactions referred to therein had been consummated on the dates or for the periods indicated, or what such results will be for any future date or any future period. We are vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced, and the continued growth that we expect to experience organically and through acquisitions. Our growth places additional demands and responsibilities our management to, among other things, maintain existing customers and attract new customers, recruit, retain and effectively manage employees, as well as expand operations and integrate customer support and financial control systems. The following factors could present difficulties to us: lack of sufficient executive-level personnel, increased administrative burden, long lead times associated with acquiring additional equipment; availability of suitable acquisition candidates and of additional capacity of trucks, saltwater disposal and underground injection wells, frac tanks, rail cars, processing facilities and pipeline right-of-way; and the ability to provide focused service attention to our customers in the areas of fracking, oil collection, tank storage, antifreeze collection, 12 Table of Contents antifreeze re-manufacturing, industrial waste management and oil and water filtration, among others. In addition, the planned expansion of our LNG truck fleet, and the anticipated cost savings, are dependent on available infrastructure for LNG refueling, which is currently limited to Haynesville, and the lack of available infrastructure may significantly restrict this planned expansion and the expected benefits of this growth. Future charges due to possible impairments of assets may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and stock price. A portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill and other intangible assets, which may be subject to future impairment that would result in financial statement write-offs. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 51.1% of our total assets as of December 31, 2012, the majority of which relates to the Power Fuels merger and TFI acquisition. If there is a material change in our business operations or prospects, the value of our intangible assets, or those we may acquire in the future, could decrease significantly. Accounting Standards Codification 350 (ASC 350 “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other) provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the definition of a business segment in which we operate; changes in economic, industry or market conditions; changes in business operations; changes in competition; or potential changes in the share price of our common stock and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, could affect the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may result in an impairment charge. Should the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and could result in our incurring net losses in future periods. On an ongoing basis and at least annually, we evaluate whether the carrying value of our intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets, although not requiring any additional cash outlay, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We depend on our senior management. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people. In particular, the continued services of Mr. Heckmann, our Executive Chairman, and Mr. Johnsrud, our Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman. The loss of the services of Mr. Heckmann or Mr. Johnsrud, or of other members of our senior management could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth if we were unable to replace them. Mr. Johnsrud has not previously been the chief executive officer of a publicly traded company and has no prior experience managing a publicly traded company and complying with federal securities laws, including compliance with disclosure requirements on a timely basis. Our management may be required for a period of time to divert its attention from operational matters to compliance and reporting requirements, which could harm our business. We have had, and may have in the future, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and thereby cause a decline in our stock price. As of December 31, 2012, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC under the Exchange Act are recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and are accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. However, we have had in the past and may have in the future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to address any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may have errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting deadlines, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. We are engaged in litigation and subject to an SEC inquiry relating to China Water and Drinks Inc., our former China water bottling business which was disposed of in 2011, and a negative outcome in any of these proceedings could materially adversely affect us. As described in greater detail in Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to our 2012 Consolidated Financial Statements herein, we and certain of our directors and officers are involved in litigation arising from or relating to our acquisition of China Water and Drinks, Inc., or “China Water,” in October 2008, including a purported class action and a derivative action. In addition, on June 10, 2011, we received a subpoena from the Denver Regional Office of the SEC seeking information and documents concerning China Water. We are cooperating and intend to continue to cooperate fully with the SEC with respect to its requests. A negative outcome of the SEC inquiry could result in the SEC imposing fines or penalties on us, or requiring us to satisfy other remedies including modifications to business practices and implementing compliance programs. 13 Table of Contents The litigation and the SEC inquiry are also causing us to incur substantial legal fees and expenses as well as requiring management time and involvement. The outcome of the litigation and the SEC inquiry are uncertain and, if adversely decided or settled against us or any of our officers or directors, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes to the fair market or carrying value of our investments in UGSI could result in a write down. As of December 31, 2012, we own approximately 7% of Underground Solutions, Inc., or “UGSI,” a supplier of water infrastructure pipeline products, which we acquired in 2009 for a total investment of $7.2 million. There is no or limited liquidity in the stock of UGSI. Changes to the fair market or carrying value of our investments in UGSI could result in a write down of this investment. Significant capital expenditures are required to conduct our business. The development of our business and services, excluding acquisition activities, requires substantial capital expenditures, particularly in our Fluids Management Division. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we made capital expenditures of approximately $45.6 million, including an expansion of our fleet of trucks and trailers, additional salt water disposal wells and completion of the construction of a pipeline in the Haynesville Shale area. We fund our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings under our bank credit facilities and, to the extent those sources are not sufficient, we may fund capital expenditures from the proceeds of debt and equity issuances. Future cash flows from operations are subject to a number of risks and variables, such as the level of drilling activity and oil and natural gas production of our customers, prices of natural gas and oil, ability to source UMO, demand for RFO, and the other risk factors discussed herein. Our ability to obtain capital from other sources, such as the capital markets, is dependent upon many of those same factors as well as the orderly functioning of credit and capital markets. To the extent we fail to have adequate funds, we could be required to reduce our capital spending, or pursue other funding alternatives, which in turn could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increases in costs relating to our large fleet of trucks, including driver compensation or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers as well as increases in fuel costs, could adversely affect our profitability. During 2012, we increased the number of truck drivers we employ to approximately 1,630 as of December 31, 2012, compared to approximately 670 as of December 31, 2011, including approximately 125 additional drivers added through the TFI acquisition and over 600 drivers added through the Power Fuels merger. Maintaining a staff of qualified truck drivers is critical to the success of our operations. We have in the past experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers in some of the markets in which we operate, which difficulty is due in part to our high standards for retention of drivers. A shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other companies may create difficulties in some regions. The compensation we offer our drivers is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to increase driver compensation and/or modify the benefits provided to our employees in future periods. In Fluids Management, we and other companies in the oil and gas industry suffer from a high turnover rate of drivers. The high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified drivers, we could be forced to, among other things, adjust our compensation packages, increase the number of our trucks without drivers, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting customer demands, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Additionally, in anticipation of or in response to geographical and market-related fluctuations in the demand for our services, we strategically relocate our equipment and personnel from one area to another, which results in operating inefficiencies, increased labor, fuel and other operating costs and could adversely affect our growth and profitability. As a result, our driver and employee training and orientation costs could be negatively impacted. Increases in oil, natural gas and diesel prices have a significant impact on our operating expenses. The price and supply of oil and fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil, natural gas and LNG, actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or “OPEC,” and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Continued increases in/high prices of diesel costs throughout 2012 reduced profit margins in Fluids Management. Fuel prices may continue to increase significantly in 2013 and beyond, which could adversely affect our operating results, particularly in Fluids Management. In addition, the supply of critical infrastructure assets, in particular employee housing, in the Bakken Shale area has not kept pace with the rapid growth in the region caused by the boom in the energy and environmental services industry. As a result, there is a shortage of fixed housing in the region, making it difficult for energy services operators and other businesses to attract quality, long-term personnel. Through an entity he controls, but which was not included in the Merger, Mr. Johnsrud owns fixed-housing units in the Bakken Shale area. Prior to the merger, Power Fuels’ employees had priority access to rent the housing owned by this entity, however there is no formal arrangement with Mr. Johnsrud to ensure that our employees have continued access to rent this housing following the merger. There can be no assurance that there will be sufficient housing available for all of our employees in the Bakken Shale area, which could adversely affect our ability to provide services and our operating results. 14 Table of Contents We depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers or the loss of any contracted volumes could result in a decline in our business. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Chesapeake Energy Corp., Shell Swepi, LLC, and Omega Holdings Company, LLC represented 15%, 14% and 9% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, respectively. Additionally, Omega Holdings Company, LLC accounted for approximately 34% of our sales of RFO for the year ended December 31, 2012, and in Fluids Management, Chesapeake Energy Corp., Shell Swepi, LLC, and Chevron Corp. accounted for approximately 21%, 20% and 11%, respectively, of Fluids Management revenues. The loss of all, or even a portion of, the revenues from these customers, as a result of competition, market conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. For example, our 2012 results of operations were adversely affected by Chesapeake Energy’s reduced natural gas drilling activity. The loss of key contracts could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Contracts with customers of our environmental solutions business generally have initial terms of one to three years, with renewal options and early termination clauses. Although we have experienced growth in the number of companies using our services during 2012, the loss or material reduction of business could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that our existing contracts will continue or be extended or renewed, that existing customers will continue to use our services at current levels or that we will be successful in obtaining new contracts. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards in the future may be subject to substantial limitations. The company believes that its ability to use its U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes may be limited. Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383 provide annual limitations with respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its net operating loss (as well as certain built-in losses) and tax credit carryforwards, respectively (Tax Attributes), against future U.S. taxable income, if the corporation experiences an “ownership change.” In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. The company regularly monitors ownership changes (as calculated for purposes of Section 382). Based on currently available information, the company believes that an ownership change may have occurred during 2012, for purposes of the rules described above. Moreover, any future transaction or transactions and the timing of such transaction or transactions could trigger additional ownership changes under Section 382. In the event of an ownership change, utilization of the company’s Tax Attributes will be subject to an overall annual limitation determined in part by multiplying the total adjusted aggregate market value of the company’s common stock immediately preceding the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate, possibly subject to increase based on the built-in gain, if any, in the company’s assets at the time of the ownership change. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years. Future U.S. taxable income may not be fully offset by existing Tax Attributes, if such income exceeds the company’s annual limitation. We operate in competitive markets, and there can be no certainty that we will maintain our current customers or attract new customers or that our operating margins will not be impacted by competition. The industries in which our Fluids Management and Recycling businesses operate are highly competitive. We compete with numerous local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources. We expect competition to intensify in the future. Furthermore, numerous well-established companies are focusing significant resources on providing similar services to those that we provide that will compete with our services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with these other companies or that competitive pressures, including possible downward pressure on the prices we charge for our products and services, will not arise. In the event that we cannot effectively compete on a continuing basis, or competitive pressures arise, such inability to compete or competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Fluids Management business depends on spending by the oil and natural gas industry in the United States, and this spending and our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. Declines in these expenditures, due to the low natural gas price environment or other factors, could result in project modification, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts owed to us. Customers’ expectations for lower market prices for oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may also cause our customers to curtail spending, thereby reducing demand for our services. 15 Table of Contents Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: • the domestic and worldwide price and supply of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil, including the natural gas inventories and oil reserves of the United States; • changes in the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • weather conditions; • the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities and processing facilities; • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including by commodity price speculators and others; • the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions • currency exchange rates; and • overall domestic and global economic and market conditions. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling activity by some of our customers or in some of the regions in which we operate. For example, natural gas spot prices have fallen significantly since late 2011 and the number of active drilling rigs operating in the Haynesville, Barnett and Marcellus Shale areas has declined with many of these rigs moving to other oil- and liquids-rich shale areas such as the Utica, Eagle Ford, Bakken and Permian Basin. This transition in exploration and production activity has caused and may continue to cause a decline in the demand for our services in affected regions where we operate and has adversely affected and may continue to affect the price of our services and the financial results of our operations. In addition, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas also may have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, due to reduced fracking activity and reduced produced water from existing producing wells to the extent existing production is not replaced and the number of producing wells for us to service declines. Recent declines in natural gas prices have caused many oil and natural gas producers to announce reductions in capital budgets for future periods. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause these and other oil and natural gas producers to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices increase from current levels. These cuts in spending have curtailed drilling programs as well as discretionary spending on well services, which have also adversely affected and may continue to affect the demand for our services, the rates we can charge and our utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could become unable to pay their vendors and service providers, including us, and we increased our bad debt reserve in 2011 and 2012 to reflect this development. Any of these conditions or events could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Any interruption in our Fluids Management services due to pipeline ruptures or spills or necessary maintenance could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand. Our fixed water transport pipelines are susceptible to ruptures and spills, particularly during start up and initial operation, and require ongoing inspection and maintenance. For example, in 2010 and 2011, we had breaks in our 50-mile underground pipeline network in the Haynesville Shale area that resulted in delays in transporting our customers’ water and resulted in significant repair and remediation costs. We may experience further difficulties in maintaining the operation of our pipelines, which may cause downtime and delays. Any interruption in our services due to pipeline breakdowns or necessary maintenance could reduce sales revenues and earnings and result in remediation costs. Transportation interruptions at our pipelines, even if only temporary, could severely harm our business and reputation. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may not be fully covered under our insurance policies. Our operations are subject to operational hazards, including accidents or equipment issues that can cause pollution and other damage to the environment. For example, produced water from our pipelines has leaked into private property on several occasions. As required pursuant to applicable law, we remediated the environmental impact, including related to site investigation and soil, groundwater and surface water cleanup. 16 Table of Contents In addition, hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, pollution and other damage to the environment, fires and hydrocarbon spills, may delay or halt operations at extraction sites which we service. These conditions can cause: • personal injury or loss of life; • liabilities from pipeline breaks and accidents by our fleet of trucks and other equipment; • damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment; and • the suspension of operations. The occurrence of a significant event or a series of events that together are significant, or adverse claims in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that are not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the well services industry. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. The Company’s maintains insurance coverage that we believe to be customary in the industry against these hazards. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. In addition, insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, it may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could make such insurance prohibitively expensive. It is likely that, in our insurance renewals, our premiums and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or considerably more expensive than it has been in the recent past. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits, and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. Improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies or fracking methodologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because our Fluids Management segment depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies (such as wind, solar, geothermal, fuel cells and biofuels) that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, technological changes could decrease the quantities of water required for fracking operations or otherwise affect demand for our services. Seasonal weather conditions and natural disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and harm our business. We operate in the southern, mid-western, western and eastern United States. These areas are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the winter and spring. During periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, our customers may curtail their operations or we may be unable to move our trucks between locations or provide other services, thereby reducing demand for, or our ability to provide services and generate revenues. For example, many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our customers’ jobsites in the spring due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws, limiting our access and our ability to provide service in these areas. In February 2011, portions of Texas had record snowfalls. In September 2011 and October 2012, portions of Pennsylvania and other areas in the eastern United States had record rainfall and flooding. During those periods, we and our customers had to significantly reduce or halt operations, resulting in a loss of revenue. In addition, the regions in which we operate have in the past been, and may in the future be, affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, windstorms, floods and tornadoes; in 2005 and 2008, for example, tropical hurricanes and related storm activity caused extensive damage in portions of Texas and Louisiana, causing disruptions in our, and our customers’, operations. Future natural disasters or inclement weather conditions could severely disrupt the normal operation of our, or our customers’, business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating margins and profitability may be negatively impacted by changes in fuel and energy costs, in part due to the fixed cost structure of our business. Our Recycling business is dependent on the widespread availability of certain crude oil products such as UMO and both our Recycling and Fluids Management business are depending on the availability of fuel for operating our fleet of trucks. Changes and volatility in the price of crude can adversely impact the prices for these products and therefore affect our operating results. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, and environmental concerns. In addition, the price at which we sell our RFO can be affected by changes in certain oil indices. If the relevant oil index rises, we can typically increase prices for our RFO. If the relevant oil index declines, we must typically reduce prices for our RFO. However, the cost to collect UMO, including the amounts we must pay to obtain UMO and the fuel costs of our oil collection fleet, 17 Table of Contents generally also increases or decreases when the relevant index increases or decreases. Even though the prices we can charge for our RFO and the costs to collect and process UMO generally increase and decrease together, we cannot assure you that when our costs to collect and process UMO increase we can increase the prices we charge for our RFO to cover such increased costs or that the costs to collect and process UMO will decline when the prices we can charge for processed oil declines, which could adversely affect our profit margins. If the prices we charge for our RFO and the costs to collect and process UMO do not move together or in similar magnitudes, it could adversely affect our profit margins, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, falling oil and diesel prices could make diesel more cost competitive with RFO, which could adversely affect our Recycling Division segment operating results. Furthermore, our facilities, fleet and personnel subject us to fixed costs, which make our margins and earnings sensitive to changes in revenues. In periods of declining demand, our fixed cost structure may limit our ability to cut costs, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage to firms with lower cost structures, or may result in reduced operating margins and/or operating losses. Consolidation and/or declines in the United States automotive repair and manufacturing industries could cause us to experience lower sales volumes, which could materially affect our growth and financial performance. Our Recycling Division relies on continued demand for oil collection, environmental and waste management services in the United States automotive repair and manufacturing industries, which may suffer from declining market size and number of locations, due in part to the uncertainty of economic conditions, international competition, and consolidation. Industry trends affecting our customers have caused our customers’ businesses to contract. Additional decline could reduce the demand for our parts cleaning and other services and products and have a material adverse impact on our business. As a result, we may not be able to continue to grow our business by increasing penetration into the industries which we serve, and our ability to retain our market share and base of sales could become more difficult. The price we receive for our RFO depends on numerous factors beyond our control, such as the supply and demand of asphalt, paper and pulp. The price of RFO and other refined products depends on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply and demand of asphalt, paper and pulp and other industrial products, in general. Our Recycling Division supplies a large percentage of its RFO for use in the production of asphalt and paper and pulp. Changes in the supply and demands for these products may, in turn, drive the price of RFO down, which could have an adverse effect on the results of our Recycling Division. The supply and demand of asphalt, for example, is affected by, among other things, local economic conditions, federal, state and local spending on infrastructure development, housing starts, federal highway trust funds, and seasonality, with demand for asphalt and asphalt products generally being higher during the summer months, due to increases in highway traffic and road construction work. Likewise, the supply and demand of paper and pulp is affected by, among other things, costs of wood, logging and transportation of timber, price of market pulp, cyclical changes in the global economy, industry capacity, foreign exchange rates, levels of economic growth and climate change, as well as social and government responses to climate change. The inability of our Recycling Division to source adequate volumes of UMO to generate profits or contributions from the sale of RFO could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Recycling Division is dependent on the availability of UMO. If our Recycling Division is not able to source adequate volumes of UMO from generators or other third parties at acceptable prices to generate profits or contributions from the subsequent sale of RFO, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Nonconforming or contaminated materials that we may receive from our Recycling customers may expose us to earnings impairments. Our Recycling Division relies, in part, on materials, particularly UMO, provided by our customers. From time to time, customers tender nonconforming materials that could be contaminated with toxins (e.g. polychlorinated biphenyls and other non-value added waste streams). It is possible that the costs associated with remediation and business interruption due to this contamination and any associated regulatory fines could be in excess of our insurance coverage limits, thus exposing us to earnings impairments. Litigation related to personal injury from the operation of our Recycling business may result in significant liabilities and limit our profitability. The hazards and risks associated with the use, transport, storage, and handling and disposal of our customers’ waste (such as fires, natural disasters, explosions and accidents) may expose us to personal injury claims, property damage claims and/or products liability claims from our customers or third parties. As protection against such claims and operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we may sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits, and we may be held liable for significant personal injury or damage to property or third parties, or other losses, that are not fully covered by our insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 18 Table of Contents Our Recycling Division is dependent on third parties to supply us with the necessary components and materials to service our customers as well as on third party transport, recycling and disposal contractors. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies and components in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may be unable to adequately provide sufficient quantities of our services and products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We, and our third party transporters, ship used oil and containerized waste collected from our customers to a number of third party recycling and disposal facilities, including incinerators, landfill operators and waste-to-energy facilities. We generally do not have long-term fixed price contracts with our third party contractors, and if we are forced to seek alternative vendors to handle our third party recycling and disposal activities, we may not be able to find alternatives without significant additional expenses, or at all, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, we could be subject to significant environmental liabilities from claims relating to the transport, storage, processing, recycling and disposal of our customers’ waste by our third party contractors and their subcontractors. We are subject to potential indemnification and warranty and product liability claims relating to our services and products. Generally, our contracts with our customers provide that in certain circumstances we will be responsible for expenses resulting from, among other things, a spill that occurs while we are transporting, processing or disposing of customers’ oil, used solvent and other waste, or any other damage to property, death or harm to any person, contamination of or adverse effects to the environment, or violation of governmental laws or rules. Accordingly, in that situation we may be required to indemnify our customers for liability under CERCLA or other environmental, employment, health and safety laws and regulations, as a result of our own willful misconduct or negligence. We may also be exposed to warranty or product liability claims by our customers, users of our parts cleaning antifreeze sales, oily water collection, oil filter collection and processing and products or third parties claiming damages stemming from the mechanical failure of parts cleaned with solvents and/or equipment provided by us. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, if our insurance coverage proves inadequate or adequate insurance becomes unreasonably costly or otherwise unavailable, future claims may not be fully insured. An uninsured or partially insured successful claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business/operating margins, revenues and competitive position. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $566.1 million of indebtedness, net of premiums and discounts, outstanding on a consolidated basis, of which approximately $167.0 million was secured, including $147.0 million outstanding under our $325.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the “Amended Revolving Credit Facility” and $20.0 million of capital leases for new trucks acquired in 2012 and other vehicle financings. Borrowings under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility effectively rank senior to our unsecured indebtedness, including our $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 9.875% Senior Notes due 2018, or the “2018 Notes,” to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt. We have approximately $177.0 million of additional availability (less approximately $1.0 million used for letters of credit) under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have other important consequences. For example, our level of indebtedness and the terms of our debt agreements may: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations under our other indebtedness and our contractual and commercial commitments and increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase the 2018 Notes tendered to us if there is a change of control, which would constitute a default under the indenture governing the 2018 Notes; 19 Table of Contents • heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or in the general economy and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions; • limit management’s discretion in operating our business; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate or the general economy. Each of these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and viability. Our ability to make payments with respect to the 2018 Notes and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our Company and industry, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the indenture governing the 2018 Notes and the Amended Revolving Credit Facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will affect our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Borrowings under our Amended Credit Facility bear interest at variable rates. If we were to borrow funds and these rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced and the risks related to our substantial indebtedness would intensify. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, any such agreements may not offer complete protection for this risk. Despite existing debt levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with our leverage. Even with our existing debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial amounts of additional debt in the future, some or all of which may be secured. As of December 31, 2012 we had approximately $177.0 million of borrowing availability (less approximately $1.0 million used for letters of credit) under our Amended Credit Facility. In addition, the indenture governing the 2018 Notes and the Amended Credit Facility allow us to issue additional debt, including additional notes, under certain circumstances, which may be guaranteed by our subsidiaries. Although the terms of the Amended Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 2018 Notes limit our ability to incur additional debt, these terms do not and will not prohibit us from incurring substantial amounts of additional debt for specific purposes or under certain circumstances, some or all of which may be secured. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify and could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service, lease payments and other obligations due to events beyond our control. We expect our interest expense related to the 2018 Notes, the borrowings under our Amended Credit Facility as of December 31, 2012, and our other indebtedness, including indebtedness assumed in connection with the Merger, to increase to approximately $47.7 million per year, and we will have higher lease expenses and other obligations after consummation of the Merger. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations, to make scheduled payments on or refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our future financial performance and our ability to generate cash in the future. Our future financial performance will be affected by a range of economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors that we cannot control, such as general economic, legislative, regulatory and financial conditions in our industry, the economy generally or other risks described in our reports filed with the SEC. A significant reduction in operating cash flows resulting from changes in economic, legislative or regulatory conditions, increased competition or other events beyond our control could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, seeking additional capital, or any combination of the 20 Table of Contents foregoing. If we raise additional debt, it would increase our interest expense, leverage and our operating and financial costs. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to make required payments on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Reducing or delaying capital expenditures or selling assets could delay future cash flows. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable. This would likely in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between our applicable debt agreements. Under these circumstances, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings or they could prevent us from making payments on the 2018 Notes or our other indebtedness. In addition, the lenders under our Amended Credit Facility or other secured indebtedness could seek to foreclose on our assets that are their collateral. If the amounts outstanding under our indebtedness were to be accelerated, or were the subject of foreclosure actions, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. The Amended Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 2018 Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. The Amended Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 2018 Notes contain covenants that restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to take various actions, such as: • transferring or selling assets; • paying dividends or distributions, buying subordinated indebtedness or securities, making certain investments or making other restricted payments; • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness or issuing preferred stock; • creating or incurring liens; • incurring dividend or other payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries; • consummating a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all our assets; • entering into transactions with affiliates; • engaging in business other than a business that is the same or similar, reasonably related, complementary or incidental to our business; • designating subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; • making acquisitions; • making capital expenditures; • entering into sale and leaseback transactions; and • prepaying, redeeming or repurchasing debt prior to stated maturities. In addition, our Amended Credit Facility requires, and any future credit facilities will likely require, us to maintain minimum cash balances and operating performance levels and comply with specified financial ratios, including regarding net leverage, debt to capitalization, fixed charge coverage or similar ratios. A breach of any of the foregoing covenants under the indenture governing the Notes or the Amended Credit Facility, as applicable, could result in a default. In addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise if we fail to meet certain ratios or because of the limitations imposed on us by such restrictive covenants. These restrictions may also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions, execute our business strategy, effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted or engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. In the future, we may also incur debt obligations that 21 Table of Contents might subject us to additional and different restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to the indenture governing the 2018 Notes, the Amended Credit Facility or such other debt obligations if for any reason we are unable to comply with our obligations thereunder or that we will be able to refinance our debt on acceptable terms or at all should we seek to do so. The covenants described above are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. Our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will satisfy those requirements. A breach of any of these provisions could result in a default under such indenture, Amended Credit Facility or other debt obligation, or any future credit facilities we may enter into, which could allow all amounts outstanding thereunder to be declared immediately due and payable, subject to the terms and conditions of the documents governing such indebtedness. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our secured lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. This would likely in turn trigger cross-acceleration and cross-default rights under any other credit facilities and indentures. If the amounts outstanding under the 2018 Notes or any other indebtedness outstanding at such time were to be accelerated or were the subject of foreclosure actions, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Our borrowings under our Amended Credit Facility expose us to interest rate risk. Our earnings are exposed to interest rate risk associated with borrowings under our Amended Credit Facility. Our Amended Credit Facility carries a floating interest rate; therefore, as interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have not yet decided whether or not we will engage in hedging activity with respect to our Amended Credit Facility. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the future and stockholders may be adversely affected by the issuance of those shares. We may raise additional capital by issuing shares of common stock, which will increase the number of common shares outstanding and may result in dilution in the equity interest of our current stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-4 with the SEC which allows us, in connection with acquisitions, to issue up to 15.0 million shares of common stock that are freely tradable upon issuance. As of December 31, 2012, we had issued approximately 7.0 million shares of our common stock under this registration statement and had approximately 8.0 million shares remaining available for future issuance. We have also filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC which allows us to issue up to $400.0 million in debt, equity and hybrid securities. As of December 31, 2012, we had issued 18,200,000 shares of common stock at total price of $80.08 million, under this registration statement and could issue up to an additional $319.92 million of debt, equity or hybrid securities. In addition, we have issued shares of our common stock pursuant to private placement exemptions from Securities Act registration requirements, including 95.0 million shares issued in connection with the Power Fuels merger, and may do so in the future. The issuance, and the resale or potential resale, of shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and could be dilutive to our stockholders depending on the performance of the acquired business and other factors. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our securities. The stock markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements; • changes in the price of oil and natural gas; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and • additions or departures of key personnel. 22 Table of Contents The trading price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange, or “NYSE,” since our initial public offering has ranged from a high of $10.74 on September 3, 2008 to a low of $2.60 on August 7, 2012. The last reported price of our common stock on the NYSE on March 14, 2013 was $4.32 per share. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock, and restrictions and covenants in our commercial credit facilities may prohibit us from paying dividends now or in the future. While we may declare dividends at some point in the future, subject to compliance with such restrictions and covenants, we cannot assure you that you will ever receive cash dividends as a result of ownership of our common stock and any gains from investment in our common stock may only come from increases in our stock prices, if any. We are subject to anti-takeover effects of certain charter and bylaw provisions and Delaware law, as well as of our substantial insider ownership. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended and restated, and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management and board of directors. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • establishing a classified board of directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year; • providing our board of directors the ability to set the number of directors and to fill vacancies on the board of directors occurring between stockholder meetings; • providing that directors may only be removed only for “cause” and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority in voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock; and • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years following the date the beneficial owner acquired at least 15% of our stock, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures, as well as the significant common stock beneficially owned by our Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman, Mr. Johnsrud, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. Risks Related to Environmental and Other Governmental Regulation We are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety, transportation, and protection of natural resources and the environment. Under these laws and regulations, we may become liable for significant penalties, damages or costs of remediation. Any changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Our operations, and those of our customers, are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety, transportation and protection of natural resources and the environment and worker safety, including those relating to waste management and transportation and disposal of produced water and other materials. For example, we are subject to environmental regulation relating to disposal into injection wells, which can pose some risks of environmental liability, including leakage from the wells to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Liability under these laws and regulations could result in cancellation of well operations, fines and penalties, expenditures for remediation, and liability for property damage and personal injuries. Our businesses, in particular our Recycling business, involve the use, handling, storage, and contracting for recycling or disposal of environmentally sensitive materials, such as motor oil, waste motor oil and filters, solvents, transmission fluid, antifreeze, lubricants, degreasing agents, gasoline, and diesel fuels. Accordingly, we are subject to regulation by federal, state, and local authorities establishing investigation and health and environmental quality standards, and liability related thereto, and providing penalties for violations of those standards. We also are subject to laws, ordinances, and regulations governing investigation and 23 Table of Contents remediation of contamination at facilities we operate or to which we send hazardous or toxic substances or wastes for treatment, recycling, or disposal. In particular, CERCLA imposes joint, strict, and several liability on owners or operators of facilities at, from, or to which a release of hazardous substances has occurred; parties that generated hazardous substances that were released at such facilities; and parties that transported or arranged for the transportation of hazardous substances to such facilities. A majority of states have adopted statutes comparable to and, in some cases, more stringent than CERCLA. If we were to be found to be a responsible party under CERCLA or a similar state statute, we could be held liable for all investigative and remedial costs associated with addressing such contamination. In addition, claims alleging personal injury or property damage may be brought against us as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the assessment of significant administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, and orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict and/or joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. For example, if a landfill or disposal operator mismanages our wastes in a way that creates an environmental hazard, we and all others who sent materials could become liable for cleanup costs, fines and other expenses many years after the disposal or recycling was completed. Future events, such as the discovery of currently unknown matters, spills caused by future pipeline ruptures, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, may give rise to additional expenditures or liabilities, which could impair our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements are changing frequently and are subject to interpretation. New laws, regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, together with uncertainty regarding adequate testing and sampling procedures, new pollution control technology and cost benefit analysis based on market conditions are all factors that may increase our future capital expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Accordingly, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of future compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing, including regulation of the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal, could result in reduction in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells or minimize water use or disposal, which could adversely impact the demand for our Fluids Management services. Demand for our Fluids Management services depends, in large part, on the level of exploration and production of oil and gas and the oil and gas industry’s willingness to purchase our services. Most of our customer base uses hydraulic fracturing to drill new oil and gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing is a process that is used to release hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from certain geological formations. The process involves the injection of water (typically mixed with significant quantities of sand and small quantities of chemical additives) under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate movement of hydrocarbons through the formation. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and has been exempt (except when the fracturing fluids or propping agents contain diesel fuels) since 2005 from United States federal regulation pursuant to the SWDA. The EPA is conducting a comprehensive study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The results of the EPA study and House investigation could lead to restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. The EPA is currently working on new guidance for application of SWDA permits for drilling or completing processes that use fracturing fluids or propping agents containing diesel fuels. In addition, the EPA finalized regulations under the CAA in October 2012 regarding certain criteria and hazardous air pollutant emissions from hydraulic fracturing wells and, in October 2011, announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the CWA to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other gas production. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, including, for example, requiring disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process or seeking to repeal the exemption from the SWDA. If adopted, such legislation would add an additional level of regulation and necessary permitting at the federal level and could make it more difficult to complete wells using hydraulic fracturing. Similar laws and regulations with respect to chemical disclosure also exist or are being considered by the United States Department of Interior and in several states, including certain states in which we operate, that could restrict hydraulic fracturing. The Delaware River Basin Commission is also considering regulations which may impact “hydrofracturing” water practices in certain areas of Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey and Delaware. Some local governments have also sought to restrict drilling in certain areas. Future United States federal, state or local laws or regulations could significantly restrict, or increase costs associated with hydraulic fracturing and make it more difficult or costly for producers to conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, which could result in a decline in exploration and production. New laws and regulations, and new enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, could also expressly restrict the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal in hydraulic fracturing and otherwise increase our costs and our customers’ cost of compliance, which could minimize water use and disposal needs even if other limits on drilling and completing new wells were not imposed. Any decline in exploration and production or any restrictions on water use and disposal could result in a decline in demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 Table of Contents Delays or restrictions in obtaining permits by our customers for their operations or by us for our operations could impair our business. In most states, our customers are required to obtain permits from one or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities and we may be required to procure permits for construction and operation of our disposal wells and pipelines. Such permits are typically required by state agencies, but can also be required by federal and local governmental agencies. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location where our, or our customers’, activities will be conducted. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions which may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. Delays or restrictions in obtaining salt water disposal well permits could adversely impact our growth, which is dependent in part on new disposal capacity. Our customers have been affected by moratoriums on the issuance of permits that have been imposed upon drilling and completion activities in certain jurisdictions. For example, in December 2010, the State of New York imposed a moratorium on certain drilling and completion activities. In 2011, the state announced plans to lift the moratorium, however, there is a proposal in the New York legislature to extend the moratorium for another year and, as of March 1, 201, the moratorium had not been lifted. A similar moratorium has been in place within the Delaware River Basin pending issuance of regulations by the Delaware River Basin Commission. Other states, including Texas, Arkansas, Pennsylvania, Wyoming and Colorado, have enacted laws and regulations applicable to our business activities, including disclosure of information regarding the substances used in hydraulic fracturing. California is presently considering similar requirements. Some of the drilling and completion activities of our customers may take place on federal land, requiring leases from the federal government to conduct such drilling and completion activities. In some cases, federal agencies have cancelled oil and natural gas leases on federal lands. Consequently, our operations in certain areas of the country may be interrupted or suspended for varying lengths of time, causing a loss of revenue and potentially having a materially adverse effect on our operations. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the trucking safety regulations, which are likely to be amended, and made stricter, as part of the initiative known as Compliance, Safety, Accountability, or “CSA.” If our current USDOT safety rating of “Satisfactory” is downgraded in connection with this initiative, our business and results of our operations may be adversely affected. As part of the CSA initiative, the FMCSA is expected to open a rulemaking docket in 2012 (originally expected in 2011) for purposes of changing its safety rating methodology. Any new methodology adopted in the rulemaking is likely to link safety ratings more closely to roadside inspection and driver violation data gathered and analyzed from month to month under the FMCSA’s new Safety Measurement System, or “SMS.” This linkage could result in greater variability in safety ratings than the current system, in which a safety rating is based on relatively infrequent on-site compliance audits at a carrier’s places of business. Preliminary studies by transportation consulting firms indicate that “Satisfactory” ratings (or any equivalent under a new SMS-based system) may become more difficult to achieve and maintain under such a system. If our operations lose their current “Satisfactory” rating, which is the highest and best rating under this initiative, we may lose some of our customer contracts that require such a rating, adversely affecting our business prospects and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 