D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our limited operating history may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and future prospects. We commenced operations and began offering our pharmaceutical and biotechnology R&D outsourcing services in 2001. In January 2008, we acquired AppTec. The acquisition expanded our services significantly to include biopharmaceutical and medical device testing and biologics-based testing and related services. Our business scope continues to evolve with the evolution of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing market in China, the United States and globally. Accordingly, our operating history, upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business and its acceptance by industry participants, is limited. These circumstances may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and future prospects, and you should not rely on our historical results or growth rates as an indication of our future performance. The trend toward greater outsourcing of R&D services by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may slow or reverse, which could slow our growth. The success of our business depends primarily on the number and size of contracts that we obtain from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Over the past several years, our business has benefited from increased levels of outsourcing of R&D activities by these companies. A slowing or reversal of this trend could result in a diminished growth rate in the sales in one or more of our expected growth areas and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We expect our revenues in the drug-discovery-based laboratory services business to grow more slowly in 2009 compared to 2008 and revenues in our biologics and medical device testing services in 2009 to be comparable to those in 2008. We expect our manufacturing services revenues in 2009 to decline from 2008 levels. A reduction in R&D budgets at pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may result in a reduction or discontinuation of our services, which may adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in the R&D budgets of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies could have a significant effect on the demand for our services. Reduced productivity in pharmaceutical R&D is now causing many of our customers to reduce their R&D budgets, and these or other customers may continue to do so in the future. Biotechnology and medical device customers are reducing their spending on testing services due to the global recession and credit crisis. R&D budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources; decisions by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to consolidate; spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. 6 Table of Contents The current global economic crisis could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current global economic crisis affects all areas of our business, including global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing markets, in all the regions in which we operate. Disruptions in orderly financial markets in recent months, resulting from, among other factors, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability and volatile and declining valuations of securities and other investments have caused business and consumer confidence to ebb, business activities to slow down and unemployment to increase. These factors, along with the interconnectivity and interdependence of international economies, have created a global downturn in economic activity. We cannot predict how severe the economic downturn will be or how long it will last. A continuing economic downturn may adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including: • Reduced demand for our services. In a period of economic uncertainty, customers may adopt a strategy to defer spending for global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing services to later periods. For example, customers who must finance their capital and other expenditures through various forms of debt may find financing unavailable to them, thereby reducing their ability and willingness to purchase our services. • Increased pricing pressure and lower margins. If the size of our potential markets contracts due to the global economic downturn, competition in the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing markets may become more intense, which could require us to offer or accept less favorable pricing, payment or other terms to remain competitive. Our competitors include a number of global enterprises who are larger than we are in terms of revenues, working capital, financial resources and number of employees, thereby limiting our influence in negotiating commercial terms. In some cases, we might be unwilling or unable to compete for business where competitive pressures make a potential opportunity unprofitable to us. • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. The failure of any of our customers to make timely payments could require us to write off accounts receivable or increase provisions made against our accounts receivable, events that could adversely affect our cash flows and profitability. • Additional restructuring and impairment charges. If we cannot generate the level of revenues, profits and cash flow contemplated by our business plan, management may be forced to take further action to refocus our business activities and realign our cost structure with anticipated revenues. The economic crisis is particularly focused on the United States, which is the source of the majority of our revenues. It is unclear how the current economic crisis will affect the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing markets in the United States and other markets that might be viewed as more immune to, or better buffered from, the current economic crisis. A limited number of our customers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a high percentage of our revenues. The loss of, or significant reduction in, orders from any of these customers could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Recent merger activity in the pharmaceutical industry increases this risk. We generated a large majority of our total net revenues over the last four years from sales to customers headquartered in the United States, and our top ten customers accounted for 54% of our total 2008 revenues. Our existing customers may not continue to generate significant revenues for us once our current engagements with them conclude, and our relationships with them may not present further business opportunities. In addition, recent mergers between large pharmaceutical companies, some of which are our customers, may demonstrate an increasing trend toward consolidation that could adversely affect our financial condition. For example, in the beginning of 2009, Pfizer, one of our major customers, announced its plans to purchase Wyeth, one of its major competitors. Such mergers could result in: • the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or contracts by one or more of our significant customers; 7 Table of Contents • the decision by one or more of our significant customers to award orders or contracts to our competitors; and • the substantial reduction in the price that one or more of our significant customers is willing to pay for our services and products. Furthermore, if we fail to build relationships with new customers or sustain or expand relationships with existing customers, we may be unable to maintain or increase our revenues. The loss of services of our senior management and key scientific personnel could severely disrupt our business and growth. Our success significantly depends upon the continued service of our senior management and key scientific personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on Dr. Ge Li, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who has managed our business, operations and sales and marketing activities and maintained personal and direct relationships with our major customers since our inception; Mr. Edward Hu, our Chief Operating Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Shuhui Chen, our Chief Scientific Officer; Dr. Suhan Tang, our Chief Manufacturing Officer; Mr. Xiaozhong Liu, our Executive Vice President and other senior management members and key scientific personnel. The loss of any of them, and in particular Dr. Ge Li, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Although each member of our senior management and key scientific personnel has signed a noncompete agreement with us, we may be unable to successfully enforce these provisions in the event of a dispute. If we lose the services of any senior management members or key scientific personnel, we may be unable to locate suitable qualified replacements and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and its growth. Our ability to execute projects; maintain, expand or renew existing customer engagements and obtain new customers depends largely on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled scientists and mid-level personnel. Our success largely depends on the breadth and depth of our team of scientists and mid-level personnel and their capabilities and efforts on behalf of our company and our customers, including their ability to keep pace with continuing changes in pharmaceutical and medical device R&D technologies and methodologies. In particular, our customers value Western-trained scientists with experience at large pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology companies. Any inability to attract, motivate and retain qualified scientists and mid-level personnel and to train them in the latest developments in their fields of expertise may have a material adverse effect on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We face challenges in attracting and retaining consistently high-quality employees. We compete vigorously with pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and contract research companies and academic and research institutions for qualified and experienced scientists and mid-level personnel, particularly in the areas of chemistry, biology and pharmaceutical manufacturing. To compete effectively, we may be required to offer higher compensation and other benefits, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to hire and retain enough skilled and experienced scientists to replace those who leave. In addition, we may be unable to redeploy and retrain our professionals to keep pace with changing customer needs, technological changes and performance standards. We face increasingly intense competition. If we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, some of whom subject us to increasing pricing pressure, demand for our services and related revenues may decrease. The global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing markets are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify. We face competition based on several factors, including quality of services; ability to protect intellectual property and other confidential information; timeliness of delivery; maintenance of standards of good laboratory practices, or GLP, and good manufacturing practices, or 8 Table of Contents GMP; depth of customer relationships; price and geography. We compete with contract research organizations, or CROs, contract manufacturing organizations and research and academic institutions, typically in specific service areas. For example, we compete with Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., which recently partnered with Shanghai BioExplorer Co., Ltd., in the preclinical services area. We compete with Shanghai ChemPartner Co., Ltd., in the discovery chemistry area. As a result of the AppTec acquisition, we compete with BioReliance Corporation in the biologics testing area and NAMSA and Toxicon Corporation in the medical device testing area. However, we believe that we do not compete with any single company across the entire breadth of our service offerings. We expect to increasingly compete against multinational companies, both domestically and internationally, as we continue to offer more complex and sophisticated laboratory and manufacturing services. Several major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies have made in-house research investments in China, and we expect this trend to continue. These in-house investments may reduce demand for our services and result in increased competition for qualified personnel. Some of our larger competitors may have: • greater financial, research and other resources; • a broader scope of services; • greater pricing flexibility; • more extensive technical capabilities; and • greater name recognition. We also expect increased competition as new companies enter our market and as more advanced technologies become available. Our services and expertise may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances or new business approaches. Our competitors’ existing or new technologies or business approaches may be more effective than our own. Furthermore, increased competition creates pricing pressure on our services, which could reduce our profitability. If we fail to effectively manage our anticipated growth and execute on our growth strategies, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer. Pursuing our growth strategies, including integrating and expanding our facilities and service offerings to meet our customers’ needs, has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial demands on our resources and management’s time. Managing this growth and our growth strategies will require, among other things: • continued enhancement of our pharmaceutical and medical device R&D capabilities; • effective coordination and integration of our research facilities and teams, particularly those located in different facilities, including newly opened sites; • successful hiring and training of personnel; • effective management of a business geographically distributed both in the United States and China; • effective cost control; • sufficient liquidity; • effective and efficient financial and management control; • increased marketing and sales-support activities; • effective quality control; and • management of our suppliers to leverage our purchasing power. Any failure to effectively manage our anticipated growth and execute on our growth strategies could adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. 9 Table of Contents We may be unable to expand our capacity and scale up our operations within the timeframe or budgeted costs that we anticipate, possibly resulting in material delay, increased costs and lost business opportunities. We are engaged in a substantial expansion of our capabilities and capacity. For example, we have constructed, and are preparing to operate, a new large-scale manufacturing facility in Jinshan to manufacturing large quantities of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, and advanced pharmaceutical intermediates for commercial supply. We expect to partially open the expanded Jinshan facility in the fourth quarter of 2009. We have also constructed and are validating a new preclinical drug safety evaluation center in Suzhou. We are in the process of hiring staff and creating a GLP quality system for our Suzhou facility, including writing standard operating procedures. We plan to offer non-GLP toxicology services in the second half of 2009; to seek accreditation from the State Food and Drug Administration, or SFDA; the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, or AAALAC; and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in the first half of 2010 and to begin offering GLP toxicology services by mid-2010. Preparing these facilities for full operation, including introduction of our initial services and development of new services, may take longer than we plan. Any material delay or unforeseen cost increase in preparing these facilities for operation could result in lost business opportunities and materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We are making significant capital investments to scale up our services to meet our customers’ needs, and, as a result, we depend on the success of our customers’ projects and their continued business. We expanded our Jinshan manufacturing facility primarily to serve our customers for the commercial manufacturing of advanced intermediates and APIs. We depend on our customers’ success in advancing products through development, regulatory approval and commercial launch. None of the products we expect to manufacture is currently approved by any regulatory authorities in the United States or Europe. Any delay or non-approval may have a material impact on our manufacturing business. Consequently, we may be required to reallocate our resources, which could cause delays in our service offerings and result in lower than expected revenues. As we develop our commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities, which inherently rely on producing larger volumes of fewer drug candidates than clinical-trial-scale manufacturing services, we will become more dependent on the success of a small number of drug candidates in development. We may fail to effectively develop and market new services, which may harm our growth opportunities and prospects, possibly resulting in losses. We intend to continue to expand our core discovery chemistry, process research and clinical-trial-scale manufacturing services. Over the past few years, we have established new services in drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics/absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion, or DMPK/ADME; discovery biology; bioanalytical services; core analytical services; formulation; analytical development services and other areas. We are preparing to launch new services in preclinical toxicology and large-scale manufacturing. To develop and/or market our new services successfully, we must: • accurately assess and meet customer needs; • optimize our drug and medical device discovery, development and manufacturing processes to predict and control costs; • hire, train and retain the necessary personnel; • obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals; • provide services of a high quality and in a timely manner; • increase customer awareness and acceptance of our services; • make significant capital expenditures; 10 Table of Contents • price our services competitively; • compete effectively with other R&D outsourcing providers; and • effectively integrate customer feedback into our business planning. If we cannot develop new services and create demand for them, our future business, including results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and prospects, could be materially and adversely affected. New technologies or methodologies may be developed, validated and used in the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing industry that could reduce demand for some of our services. The global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing industry is constantly evolving, and we must keep pace with new technologies and methodologies to maintain our competitive position. For example, a new drug discovery method, known as a “genome-to-drug-lead” approach, in which chemicals can be virtually screened against computer-predicted protein targets, could offer a way to reduce labor requirements for chemists who experimentally search for drug leads, one of the most significant obstacles to drug discovery. The method may also allow chemists to better exploit the extensive availability of drug targets at the gene level and ultimately improve the success of moving discoveries from the laboratory to patients. As a result, we must continue to invest significant amounts of human and capital resources in R&D to enhance technologies that allow us to introduce new and better services. However, we may be unsuccessful in adapting to or commercializing these new technologies, if developed. New technologies could decrease the need for our existing technologies, and we may not be able to develop new services or technologies effectively or in a timely manner. Our failure to develop, enhance or adapt to new technologies and methodologies could significantly reduce demand for our services and harm our business and prospects. As a result of the AppTec acquisition, we are a larger and more geographically diverse organization. The inability to manage successfully this geographically more diverse organization could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. As a result of the AppTec acquisition, we had approximately 3,614 full-time employees as of May 31, 2009, located in China and the United States. We face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The inability to manage successfully our geographically diverse organization could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Because many of our fee-for-service contracts are contingent on successful completion of a project and often have a fixed price, we may bear financial risk. A significant portion of our net revenues, including part of our laboratory services revenues and all of our manufacturing services revenues, are based on fee-for-service contracts, which are contingent on successful completion of a project and often have a fixed price. In 2008, fee-for-service contracts accounted for 59% of total revenues. If we do not deliver a service as specified in the contract or in a timely manner, if we incur cost overruns, or if we intentionally price these contracts below our cost estimate because of competitive pressures, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Our customer agreements contain provisions that run counter to our interests or expose us to potential liability. Our customers’ agreements generally provide that the customers can terminate the agreements or reduce the scope of services with little or no notice. A majority of our customer agreements allow customers to unilaterally terminate for convenience upon prior notice ranging from 30 to 90 days. If a customer terminates a contract with 11 Table of Contents us, under the terms of the contract we are only entitled to receive revenues earned up to the date of termination. Therefore, cancellation or modification of one large contract or proximate cancellation or modification of multiple smaller contracts could materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. In addition, in some of our customer contracts, we agree not to compete with the customer, either by ourselves or together with third parties. We are required to seek the customer’s prior written consent before making compounds chemically similar to those made for the customer. For some customers, our noncompete obligation is broad. For example, with one of our customers we have agreed that, for up to ten years after termination of the agreement, any employee who has worked on the customer’s projects may not work on any other project whereby the knowledge gained from such customer’s projects would be relevant. Complying with these noncompete obligations may restrict our ability to expand certain service offerings, and failure to comply could significantly harm our business and reputation, as well as expose us to liability for breach of contract. We depend on a limited number of international supply sources for several of our service offerings, which, if interrupted, could cause disruption or delay to our services, reduce our sales and force us to use more expensive supply sources. We depend on a limited number of international sources for our supply of certain reagents and other chemicals required in our product and service offerings, particularly in connection with our manufacturing services. Disruptions or delays to their continued supply may arise from health problems, export or import restrictions, embargoes, political or economic instability, severe weather conditions, disruptions to the air-travel system, contract disputes or other disruptions. If the supply of certain materials were interrupted, our services would be delayed. We also may not be able to secure alternative supply sources in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we cannot obtain adequate supplies of required materials that meet our standards or are sold at acceptable costs, our ability to accept and fulfill customer orders in the required quality and quantity and at the required time could be restricted, which in turn could harm our reputation, reduce our sales, cause us to lose market share, force us to use more expensive sources of supply and materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Our principal laboratory and manufacturing facilities may be vulnerable to natural disasters or other unforeseen catastrophic events. We conduct our primary R&D activities at our headquarters located in the Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone. We also conduct R&D activities at three other facilities in China, located in the Jinshan area of Shanghai, Tianjin and Suzhou, and at our three United States facilities in St. Paul, Minnesota; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Atlanta, Georgia. We depend on these facilities for continued business operations. Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortages, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars, or, as occurred in December 2006, the disruption of sea-floor fiber optical cables due to earthquakes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business in its ordinary course. Our facilities and certain equipment located in these facilities would be difficult to replace in any such event and could require substantial replacement lead time. The occurrence of any such event could materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Any failure by us to satisfy our customers’ audits and inspections could harm our reputation. Our customers and various regulatory authorities routinely audit and inspect our facilities, processes and practices to ensure that our services are meeting their standards in the pharmaceutical and medical device product development process. To date, we have passed all such audits and inspections. However, failure to pass these audits or inspections to our customers’ and regulators’ satisfaction could significantly harm our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to protect our customers’ intellectual property rights, we may be subject to liability for breach of contract and may suffer damage to our reputation. Protection of customers’ intellectual property, or IP, associated with pharmaceutical and medical device R&D services is critical to their success. Our customers generally retain ownership of all associated IP, including both IP that they provide to us and IP that arises from the services we provide. Our success therefore depends in substantial part on our ability to protect the proprietary rights of our customers. This is particularly important for us because a large part of our operation is based in China, and China and Chinese companies have not traditionally enforced IP protection to the same extent as the United States and U.S. companies. Despite measures we take to protect our customers’ or our own IP, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In some of our customer agreements, we have assumed indemnification obligations for IP infringement to the extent that we create the infringing aspect in deliverables by our customers. Our liability is usually not capped under these agreements. As a result, if any aspect of deliverables to our customers that we create infringes a third party’s IP rights, and particularly if such deliverable ultimately becomes a commercially successful product, we could potentially be exposed to substantial liability. Any unauthorized disclosure of our customers’ IP could subject us to liability for breach of contract, as well as significant damage to our reputation, which could materially harm our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The lessor of our temporary Suzhou facilities does not possess the required title certificate. We may be required to vacate these premises, causing a disruption to our operations. We entered into a lease agreement that expires in 2012 with a Suzhou-based company for use of temporary preclinical facilities in Suzhou. These facilities are located separate from our own newly constructed 314,000 square foot toxicology facility in Suzhou. The lessor has not obtained the relevant title certificate and therefore cannot register our lease agreement. In June 2007, we received a letter permitting our use of the facilities within the lease term from the competent authority in charge of the administrative district where these temporary Suzhou facilities are located. However, under Chinese law, our lease agreement may be subject to third-party challenges, and as a result, we may be required to vacate these premises and relocate our operations to our own newly constructed Suzhou facility. We may undertake acquisitions that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and may end up being unsuccessful. Our growth strategy may involve acquisitions of new technologies, businesses, products or services or the creation of strategic alliances in areas where we do not currently operate. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional businesses that are complementary to our existing business. Our integration of AppTec has required, and will continue to require, significant attention from our management. Future acquisitions will likely present similar challenges and could require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the integration of acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on our ability to effectively manage our business. Completed acquisitions may also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, our inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs, expenses related to the acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers as a result of our integration of new businesses, any of which could significantly disrupt our ability to manage our business. For our clients’ pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device products to be marketed in the United States or other countries, we may need to obtain clearance from the FDA or other regulatory authorities, and our operations need to comply with the standards of those agencies. Any adverse action by the FDA or other regulatory authority against us would negatively impact our ability to offer services to our customers and would harm our business and prospects. As we expand our service offerings, we may need to obtain clearance by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or other regulatory authorities in the event that our customers’ clinical trials are filed as 13 Table of Contents part of a New Drug Application, or NDA, or Biologic License Application or other filing to seek marketing approval. All facilities and processes used to manufacture drugs and biologics in the United States, Europe and Japan must conform to standards established by the appropriate regulatory authority. These authorities may conduct scheduled periodic inspections of our facilities to monitor our regulatory compliance. If they find that we have failed to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, they may impose fines or take other actions against us or our customers, or we may no longer be able to offer our services to our customers. The resulting corrective measures may be lengthy and costly. As a result, we may be unable to fulfill our contractual obligations. Any adverse action by the regulatory authorities would have a material and adverse impact on our reputation and our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We may or may not obtain clearance from the FDA standards in the event that we are inspected, or be able to maintain such clearance over time. We may need additional capital that we may be unable to obtain in a timely manner on acceptable terms. In order to expand our capacity, develop new services and remain competitive, we may require additional capital. Financing may be unavailable in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital-raising activities by life science and related companies, and • economic, political and other conditions in China, the United States and internationally. Our capital needs may require us to issue additional equity or debt securities or to incur indebtedness, which may result in dilution of shares held by existing shareholders or introduce covenants that may restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in dilution to the shares held by our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants restricting our operations or our ability to pay shareholder dividends. We have limited insurance coverage, and any claims beyond our insurance coverage may result in our incurring substantial costs and a diversion of resources. We maintain property insurance policies covering physical damage to, or loss of, our buildings and their improvements, equipment, office furniture and inventory. We hold employer’s liability insurance generally covering death or work injury of employees. We maintain product liability and professional errors and omissions insurance covering product liability claims arising from the use, consumption or operation of our small-molecule compounds and biologics and claims arising from negligence in connection with our services to customers. We hold public liability insurance covering certain incidents to third parties that occur on or in the premises of the company. We hold directors and officers liability insurance. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover any claim for product liability, damage to our fixed assets or employee injuries. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and, to our knowledge, do not offer business liability insurance. While business interruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the cost of this insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring it on commercially reasonable terms make doing so impractical. As a result, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our China operations. Any business disruption or litigation, or any liability or damage to, or caused by, our facilities or our personnel beyond our insurance coverage may result in our incurring substantial costs and a diversion of resources. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our pharmaceutical and medical device R&D processes involve the use of highly toxic and hazardous materials. Any failure by us to control the use of, restrict adequately the discharge of or protect our employees 14 Table of Contents from, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. We are subject to national, state, provincial and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. We cannot fully eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials, and we may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ADSs or ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either (a) the average quarterly value of our gross assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our total gross assets or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC for a given taxable year if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents in that year. We believe that we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008. Although we intend to conduct our business activities in a manner to reduce the risk of our classification as a PFIC in the future, we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which are likely to fluctuate, there can no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC for 2009 or any future taxable year. Based in part on our estimate of the composition of our income and our estimates of the value of our assets, we do not expect to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008, or in the foreseeable future. However, PFIC status is tested each year and will depend on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets from time to time (including, among others, goodwill and equity investments in less-than-25%-owned entities). Because we expect to hold a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market price of our ADSs, which fluctuates, we may be a PFIC for any taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10.E, “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we include a report from management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2008, our management may later conclude that our internal control is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes in the future that our internal control is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is designed, documented, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they may issue an adverse or qualified opinion. Furthermore, our acquisition of AppTec presents new Section 404 challenges because AppTec’s related financial reporting must be included in our Section 404 assessment for the year ended December 31, 2009. 15 Table of Contents Any of these outcomes could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our audited consolidated financial statements, which could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. If we grant employee stock options and restricted stock shares, our net income could be adversely affected. Our equity incentive plans and other similar types of incentive plans are important in order to attract and retain key personnel. We have granted stock options and restricted stock shares in the past pursuant to an informal plan, and we adopted a formal equity incentive plan for our employees in July 2007 for future grants. As a result of the issuance of options and restricted stock under these plans, we have incurred, and expect to incur, share-based compensation expenses. We account for compensation costs for all stock options and restricted stock, including shares granted to our directors and employees, using the fair value method and recognize the expense in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123-R, which may have a negative effect on our net income. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of our equity incentive plans. Restrictions on our operations contained in convertible notes and bank loans may limit how we conduct our business, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders. On February 9, 2007, we issued $40 million in convertible notes to a consortium of investors. As of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F, $35.9 million in convertible notes (including principal and accrued interest) are outstanding. These notes contain restrictions on our major corporate actions that may limit the manner in which we conduct our business, including the payment of shareholder dividends. As long as at least 50% of the initial principal amount of all of the notes is outstanding, we may not take any of the following actions without the prior written consent of a majority in interest of the noteholders: • redeem any of our equity securities if the amount of such redemptions, when aggregated with all other redemptions of equity securities during the period from the date of the issuance of the notes to the date of such redemption, exceeds $2.5 million; • pay, in whole or in part, any indebtedness for borrowed money other than all present and future bank and purchase money loans, equipment financings and equipment leases; or • declare or pay any dividends or other distributions to any equity securities other than the declaration and payment of (a) a cash dividend in any fiscal year that, when aggregated with all other cash dividends declared during such fiscal year, does not exceed 50% of our audited consolidated net income for our most recently completed fiscal year, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, or (b) any dividend for which an adjustment is made in accordance with the terms of the notes. On January 8, 2009, we entered into an agreement for a $4 million short-term loan and a $16 million short-term revolving facility from J.P. Morgan Chase. The loan agreement contains covenants on our major corporate actions that may limit the manner in which we conduct our business, including covenants that: • we maintain several debt-related financial ratios beyond certain thresholds; • each loan is payable on demand by J.P. Morgan Chase; • dividend payout by us to our shareholders cannot exceed 35% of our total net income for the year in which the dividend payout is made; and • the amount of new PRC- and non-PRC loans entered into by us. 16 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands company, and because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have fewer shareholder rights than you would have under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association (as may be amended from time to time), the Cayman Islands Companies Law (2007 Revision), or the Companies Law, and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law than the United States. In addition, some states in the United States, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. Moreover, as a non-U.S. company with foreign private-issuer status, we have been exempted from, and you are not provided with the benefits of, some of the NYSE corporate-governance requirements applicable to U.S. companies, including that: • a majority of our board of directors must be independent directors; • the compensation of our chief executive officer must be determined or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and • our director nominees must be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors. The Companies (Amendment) Law, 2009 became effective on May 11, 2009 and introduced a new mechanism into the Companies Law for mergers and acquisitions where the merged company or consolidated company will continue to be a Cayman Islands entity. Under the new mechanism, dissenting shareholders have the right to be paid the fair value of their shares (which, if not agreed to by the parties, will be determined by the Cayman Islands court) if they follow the required procedures, subject to certain exceptions. However, these rights have never been tested before the Cayman Islands court, and as a result, they may not be comparable to the appraisal rights that would ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of a U.S. company. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may be unenforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company, and the majority of our assets and a large part of our operations are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted, and our operating assets are located, in the PRC. In addition, many of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil-liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not resident in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. The courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC may not recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil-liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, such Cayman Islands or PRC courts may not be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. 17 Table of Contents Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries, including healthcare reform, could decrease the need for the services we provide. Governmental agencies throughout the world, particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D process. Our business helps pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements, the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our services less competitive could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services. In recent years, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures have considered various types of healthcare reform to control growing healthcare costs. Similar reform movements have occurred in Europe and Asia. Implementation of healthcare reform legislation that restricts or caps costs could limit or eliminate profits that can be made from new pharmaceutical developments. This could adversely affect R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, which in turn could decrease the related business opportunities available to us. We cannot predict what legislative proposals will be adopted, if any. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As our pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D processes generate wastewater, toxic and hazardous substances and other industrial wastes, we must comply with all national and local environmental regulations in China and the United States. Because the requirements imposed by environmental laws and regulations may change and more stringent regulations may be adopted in the future, we may be unable to comply with, or to accurately predict the potentially substantial cost of complying with, these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. In addition, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these hazardous materials. If we fail to prevent contamination or injury, we could be liable for any resulting damages, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. Some of our current services involve testing pharmaceuticals and medical devices in laboratory animals. As we expand our service biology offerings into toxicology, we anticipate that we will work extensively with large animals and non-human primates. While the testing of pharmaceuticals in animals is almost universally mandated by law, certain special interest groups categorically object to the use of animals for these research purposes. Any threats directed against our animal research activities or negative media attention could impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety testing procedures that utilize laboratory animals, as has been advocated by certain groups, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Any failure to comply with existing regulations and industry standards could harm our reputation. A number of governmental agencies or industry regulatory bodies in China, the United States, Europe and Japan impose strict rules, regulations and industry standards on how we and our customers conduct pharmaceutical and medical device R&D. Any failure on our part to comply with existing regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, if we were to treat research animals inhumanely and not in accordance with international standards set out by AAALAC, that organization could revoke any such accreditation, and the accuracy of our animal research data could be questioned. Any material violation by us of good laboratory practice, or GLP, or good manufacturing 18 Table of Contents practice, or GMP, as determined by the FDA or other regulatory authorities could cause our customers to terminate their contracts with us and thus materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. In providing our pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing services, we face health and safety liability and product liability risks. In providing our pharmaceutical development services, we face a range of potential liabilities. For example, animals serving as disease models and animals infected with diseases for research purposes may be harmful, or even lethal, to humans despite preventive measures we take for animal quarantine and handling. We also face product liability risks if the pharmaceuticals and medical devices we help to develop and manufacture are subject to product liability claims. We provide services in the development, testing and manufacturing of pharmaceuticals and medical devices that may ultimately be used by humans, including biologic products to be tested in human clinical trials, although we do not commercially market or sell the products to end users. If any of these pharmaceuticals or medical devices harms people, we may be subject to litigation and may be required to pay damages to those persons. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a material and adverse impact on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Although we currently maintain product liability and professional errors and omissions insurance, our insurance coverage may be inadequate or may become unavailable on terms acceptable to us. Risks Relating to China The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective January 1, 2008. The New EIT Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises under its predecessor. The New EIT Law, however, (i) reduces the statutory rate of enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies established before March 16, 2007, that were eligible for preferential tax rates according to then-effective tax laws and regulations to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules, and gradually transit to the uniform 25% EIT rate by January 1, 2013, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. Therefore, as enterprises established prior to the promulgation of the New EIT Law, WASH, STA, WATJ and WASZ are still entitled to their preferential tax treatment, which shall also be subject to the transitional phase-out rules. In addition, based on the new tax law, an enterprise that is entitled to preferential treatment in the form of enterprise income tax reduction or a tax holiday exemption, but has not been profitable and, therefore, has not enjoyed such preferential treatment, was required to begin its tax holiday exemption in the same year that the new tax law goes into effect, i.e., 2008. As such, certain subsidiaries have begun their tax holiday exemption in 2008, even though they were not yet cumulatively profitable at that time. The New EIT Law and its implementing rules permit certain “high and new technology enterprises,” or HNTEs, to enjoy a reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate subject to certain general factors described in the EIT Law and the related regulations. In the fourth quarter of 2008, our PRC subsidiaries WXAT, WASH, WATJ and STA were designated by the local provincial level Municipal Science and Technology Commission, Finance Bureau and State and Local Tax Bureaus as HNTEs under the EIT Law. Therefore WXAT, WASH, WATJ and STA are eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% as long as they maintain their qualification as an HNTE. However, WASH, STA and WATJ will not adopt the HNTE policy until the transitional periods of the new EIT law expire, as the tax rate under the transitional periods are lower than 15%, the tax rate under HNTE incentive tax policy. WXAT started to enjoy the HNTE policy from 2008. If either or all of them fail to maintain the HNTE qualification, their applicable EIT rate may increase to up to 25%, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Preferential tax treatment granted to our subsidiaries by the local governmental authorities is subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment currently available to us and our wholly owned subsidiaries will cause our effective tax rate to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current effective tax rate in the future. Under China’s New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. This classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under China’s New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define “de facto management bodies” as “management bodies that exercise substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Currently no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available; therefore it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividend income between qualified resident enterprises is exempted income, it is not clear what is considered a qualified resident enterprise under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules. Finally, the New EIT Law and its implementing rules issued by PRC tax authorities suggest that dividends paid by us to our non-PRC shareholders will be subject to a 10% withholding tax. Similarly, these unfavorable consequences could apply to our BVI holding company if it is classified as a PRC resident enterprise. The discontinuation of any of the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. Since inception, we have benefited from either exemptions or subsidies with respect to income tax and sales tax. Our eligibility to receive these financial incentives requires that we continue to qualify for these financial incentives. The incentives are subject to the discretion of the central government or relevant local government authorities, who could determine at any time to immediately eliminate or reduce these financial incentives, generally with prospective effect. Since our receipt of the financial incentives is subject to periodic time lags and inconsistent government practice, for as long as we continue to receive these financial incentives, our net income in a particular period may be higher or lower relative to other periods based on the potential changes in these financial incentives in addition to any business or operational factors we may otherwise experience. For example, we expect downward pressure on future margins on goods manufactured for export due to changes in China’s value added tax, or VAT, system reducing the potential VAT credits on certain categories of goods from 13% to 5%. On November 5, 2008, the State Council of China approved the amendments to the Provisional Regulations of the PRC on Value Added Tax, or Amended VAT Regulations. The key change is a shift from a production-based to a consumption-based VAT regime. Under the old regime, the recovery of input VAT incurred on the purchase of fixed assets is disallowed. The Amended VAT Regulations will allow general VAT payers to recover input VAT incurred on the purchase of certain fixed assets. The new VAT treatment of fixed assets applies to equipment purchased on or after January 1, 2009. Equipment for this purpose includes machinery, means of transportation and other equipment and tools related to production and operation. Before December 31, 2008, there was a policy of VAT exemption on imported equipment. This preferential VAT policy was abolished as of January 1, 2009. Because of the different business activities and locations of our PRC subsidiaries, the amended VAT regulations have different impacts on each of these entities. The amended VAT regulations will allow STA, 20 Table of Contents our manufacturing entity and a VAT tax payer, to credit input VAT on qualified equipment purchases (both imported and domestic). Our other subsidiaries, including WXAT, WATJ and WASZ, cannot continue to enjoy the VAT exemption on imported equipment. Also, these subsidiaries cannot credit input VAT on qualified equipment purchases because their primary income is from service fees that are subject to business tax rather than VAT. Therefore the VAT reform will increase the cost of imported equipment purchased by WXAT, WATJ and WASZ. Though WASH is of a similar nature to WXAT, WATJ and WASZ and therefore cannot enjoy the credit input VAT on qualified equipment purchases, it will continue to enjoy the VAT exemption on its imported equipments because it is located in the Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone of Shanghai. Fluctuations in exchange rates have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, foreign-exchange losses and to adversely impact our profitability. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. As a result, from July 21, 2005 to June 22, 2009, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 17.4% against the U.S. dollar. In 2008, approximately 80% of our net revenues were generated from sales denominated in U.S. dollars, and a significant portion of our operating costs and expenses were denominated in Renminbi. As a result, when the Renminbi appreciates against the dollar, our margins are pressured. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.5% per day, and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign-exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi-dollar exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign-exchange market. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we pay. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We periodically purchase derivative financial instruments such as foreign-exchange forward contracts to manage our exposure to Renminbi-dollar exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Changes in China’s economic, political and social condition could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We conduct a significant portion of our business operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage, but also to control, economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations. Furthermore, the PRC government, through the People’s Bank of China, continues to implement interest rate increases to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various 21 Table of Contents forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries are foreign-invested enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. These laws and regulations change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. In addition, some regulatory requirements issued by certain PRC government authorities may not be consistently applied by other government authorities, including local government authorities, thus making strict compliance with all regulatory requirements impractical or, in some circumstances, impossible. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we benefit from either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. By way of further example, although required by PRC law, many foreign-invested enterprises, including our PRC subsidiaries, have not historically obtained approvals from the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, or its counterparts before receiving approval from the Ministry of Commerce or its counterparts for their establishment. The NDRC has recently reiterated its position that the establishment of foreign-invested enterprises is subject to the NDRC’s approval, in addition to any other required PRC government approvals. However, the legal consequence for failure to obtain the NDRC approval by those foreign-invested enterprises, including our PRC subsidiaries, is not prescribed under the current PRC law. As a result, these uncertainties, together with any development or interpretation of the PRC law that is adverse to us, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and reputation and the trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated a regulation that became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, has some provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals shall obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. We completed the initial listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE in August 2007. We did not seek CSRC approval in connection with our initial public offering. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear, with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, advised us that because we completed our restructuring for the initial public offering before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it was not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE did not require CSRC approval. A copy of Commerce & Finance Law Offices’ legal opinion regarding this PRC regulation is filed as an exhibit to our registration statement on Form F-1 in connection with our initial public offering, which is available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for the initial public offering, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. 22 Table of Contents If the CSRC later requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties. A failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to complete any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from distributing profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. SAFE has promulgated several regulations that require PRC residents to register with and/or obtain approvals from branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. The SAFE regulation issued in October 2005, known as Notice 75, requires (i) PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any offshore company, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets or equities of PRC companies and raising funds from overseas, (ii) any PRC resident who is a shareholder of an offshore special purpose company to amend such shareholder’s SAFE registration with the relevant SAFE branch with respect to such company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China, and (iii) registration by March 31, 2006, of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in such companies. In November 2005 and May 2007, SAFE promulgated implementing rules with respect to Notice 75. We previously notified and urged our shareholders who are PRC residents to make the necessary registrations and filings as required under these regulations, and these shareholders have made efforts to register their investments in our company with the local SAFE branch in Wuxi, China. However, the local SAFE branch in Wuxi declared that registrations under Notice 75 were not required from these shareholders. As Notice 75 Implementing Rules are relatively new, it remains unclear how Notice 75, and any future PRC legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted and implemented by the relevant PRC government authorities, and whether the local SAFE branch in Wuxi correctly interpreted Notice 75 as to its application to certain of our shareholders. Therefore, we cannot assure you that all relevant shareholders have made or will make and obtain all applicable registrations or filings required by these regulations or other related legislation. Our PRC counsel has advised us that if any of our PRC shareholders fails to make any required SAFE registrations and amendments thereto, our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries may be limited, and our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us. Moreover, the failure to comply with SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign-exchange restrictions. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiaries to fund cash and financing requirements. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If any of our five subsidiaries in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by the subsidiary only out of its retained earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, each of our operating subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund specific reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. A wholly foreign-owned enterprise is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits of the preceding year as its reserve funds. It may stop 23 Table of Contents contributing if the aggregate amount of the reserve funds has already accounted for more than 50% of its registered capital. Moreover, upon a board resolution, it may set aside certain amounts from its after-tax profits of the preceding year as bonus and welfare funds for staff and workers. An equity joint-venture enterprise is required to set aside reserve funds, bonus and welfare funds for staff and workers and development funds, the percentage of which shall be determined by the board. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, each of the operating subsidiaries in China is restricted in its ability to transfer a portion of its net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. As of December 31, 2008, the restricted portion of their net assets totaled $177.3 million, which is composed of the registered capital and the statutory reserve of the PRC subsidiaries. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries in China to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Under China’s existing foreign-exchange regulations, each of our subsidiaries in China is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from SAFE or its local counterparts, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the PRC government may take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign-exchange transactions by our subsidiaries under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign-exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with, PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if one subsidiary borrows foreign-currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts. If we finance such subsidiary by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian flu in China or similar adverse public health development may severely disrupt our business and operations. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt businesses and the national economy of China and other countries where we do business. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. However, a number of isolated new cases of SARS were subsequently reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. Moreover, some Asian countries, including China, have recently experienced incidents of the A(H1N1) strain of influenza, or Influenza A virus subtype H1N1. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that influenza may have on our business. Any future outbreak of SARS, A(H1N1) or similar adverse public health developments may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities in China may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that our PRC subsidiary or our affiliated entity owes additional taxes could substantially reduce our net income and the value of our shareholders’ investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We would be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contracts between our subsidiaries were not executed on an arm’s length basis, and as a result the PRC tax authorities could require that our PRC subsidiaries adjust their taxable income upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our tax expenses. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our ADSs Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below investors’ expectations, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors, including: • the commencement, completion or cancellation of large contracts; • the progress of ongoing contracts; • impairment charges and charges related to discontinued operations; • general economic conditions in China, the United States and internationally; • acquisitions, dispositions or discontinuances of businesses and any associated charges; • our customers’ requirements for delivery of services, particularly our manufacturing services; • changes in the mix of our revenues from our laboratory service and manufacturing services, including the portion of services performed on a fee-for-service or full-time-equivalent basis; • changes in the R&D outsourcing industry’s operating environment; and • changes in government policies or regulations or their enforcement. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. The trading prices of our ADSs have been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. Since our initial public offering on August 9, 2007, the daily closing trading price of our ADSs on the NYSE has ranged from $3.76 to $41.28, and the last reported trading price on June 24, 2009 was $8.47 per ADS. The trading price of our ADSs could fluctuate widely in response to variations in operating results from quarter to quarter, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, market conditions in the industry and general economic conditions, among other things. In particular, from 2008 to the present, multiple securities exchanges in the United States and other countries, including China, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The volatility in global capital markets may affect overall investor sentiment towards our ADSs, which could also negatively affect the trading prices of our ADSs. The performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may also affect the volatility in the trading price and volumes of our ADSs. Recently, a number of PRC companies have listed, or are preparing to list, their securities in the United States. Some of these listed companies have experienced significant stock-price volatility, including significant price declines after their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these PRC companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect overall investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, the trading price and volume of our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. In particular, variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow and announcements of new investments and cooperation arrangements or acquisitions could cause the trading price and volume of our ADSs to change substantially. Following periods of volatility in the trading price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class-action litigation against that company. If we become involved in a class-action suit, it could divert our senior management’s attention, and, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. 25 Table of Contents The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will attempt to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten clear days. When a general meeting is convened, holders of our ADSs may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit the holder to withdraw the ordinary shares to allow the holder to cast his or her vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to the holder or carry out the holder’s voting instructions in a timely manner. We make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to holders of our ADSs in a timely manner, but holders may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that the holder can instruct the depositary to vote his or her shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise the right to vote and may lack recourse if the holder’s ordinary shares are not voted as requested. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, could modify our structure or could cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preference shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preference shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preference shares, the market price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. Because our directors are divided into three classes with staggered terms of three years each, shareholders can only elect or remove a limited number of our directors in any given year. The length of these terms could present an obstacle to certain actions, such as a merger or other change of control, that could be in the interest of our shareholders. Holders of ADSs may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to the holders. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay holders of our ADSs cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian of our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Holders of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares the holder’s ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if the securities being distributed require registration under the Securities Act but are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not 26 Table of Contents responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that holders of our ADSs may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to the holders. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of the holder’s ADSs. We intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends directly on our ordinary shares, or indirectly on our ADSs, in the foreseeable future. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings. From time to time, we may distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. To the extent holders of our ADSs hold certificated ADRs rather than holding ADSs through their bank, broker or other nominee through the Depositary Trust Company, the ADSs represented by ADRs will be transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies and will close its books on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of, or circumstance permitted by, the deposit agreement. 27 Table of Contents 