Item 1A Risk Factors—Our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements and judgments in the covered litigation and will not insulate us from other pending or future litigation and See Note 21—Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report. Our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements and judgments in the covered litigation and will not insulate us from other pending or future litigation. Our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the covered litigation described in Note 21—Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. The retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation, including an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and potential follow-on offerings of our class A common stock (or deposits of cash to the escrow account in lieu of such follow-on offerings), a loss sharing agreement, a judgment sharing agreement and the indemnification obligation of Visa U.S.A. members pursuant to Visa U.S.A.’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. These mechanisms are unique and complex, and if we are prevented from using one or more of these mechanisms under our retrospective responsibility plan, we could have difficulty funding the payment of a settlement or final judgment against us in a covered litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. The retrospective responsibility plan does not address litigation other than the covered litigation that we currently face, including state court litigation relating to interchange, and will not cover litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our initial public offering that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. In addition, our retrospective responsibility plan is designed to cover only the potential monetary liability from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation. Settlements and judgments in covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues, increase our expenses and/or limit our prospects for growth. Therefore, even if our retrospective responsibility plan adequately safeguards us from the monetary impact of settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation, it may not be sufficient to insulate us from all potential adverse consequences of settlements of, and judgments in, the covered litigation. 17 Table of Contents If the settlements of Visa U.S.A.’s and Visa International’s currency conversion cases do not become final and we are unsuccessful in any of the various lawsuits relating to Visa U.S.A.’s and Visa International’s currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Visa U.S.A. and Visa International are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that their currency conversion practices are or were deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. On July 20, 2006 and September 14, 2006, Visa U.S.A. and Visa International entered into agreements to settle or otherwise dispose of these matters. Pursuant to the settlement agreements, Visa U.S.A. paid approximately $100 million as part of the defendants’ settlement fund for the federal actions and approximately $19 million to fund settlement of the state cases. While the federal court has granted final approval of the settlement agreements, the settlements are subject to resolution of any appeals. If an appeal is filed and we are unsuccessful in that appellate proceeding, all of the agreements resolving the federal and state actions will terminate. If that occurs, and we are unsuccessful in defending against some or all of these lawsuits, we may have to pay restitution and/or damages, and may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. The potential amount of damages and/or restitution could be substantial. In addition, although Visa U.S.A. and Visa International have substantially changed the practices that were at issue in these litigations, if the courts require further changes to our currency conversion and cross-border transaction practices, it could materially and adversely affect our business. See Note 21—Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report. If we, Visa U.S.A. or Visa International is found liable in certain other lawsuits that have been brought against us or if we are found liable in other litigation to which we may become subject in the future, we may be forced to pay substantial damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues and profitability. In recent years, numerous civil actions and investigations have been filed or initiated against Visa alleging or seeking information as to alleged violations of competition/antitrust, consumer protection, intellectual property and other laws. These actions and investigations have been filed or initiated by a variety of different parties, including the DOJ, U.S. state attorneys general, merchants and consumers. Examples of such claims are described more fully in Note 21—Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report. In addition, in the United States, private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us, particularly in cases involving merchants and consumers, due to the size and scope of our business and the large number of parties involved in our payment system. We have also received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from other companies suggesting that we may be infringing a pre-existing patent or that we need to license use of their patents to avoid infringement. Such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. We cannot predict whether or to what extent we will be subject to liability arising from these or other actions, nor can we predict how much of this liability would not be covered by our retrospective responsibility plan. If we are unsuccessful in our defense against any material current or future proceedings, we may be forced to pay substantial damages, limit the fees we charge, or change other business practices, limiting our payments volume resulting in a material and adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. 18 Table of Contents Limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years as a result of litigation and litigation settlements. For example, as a result of the June 2003 settlement of a U.S. merchant lawsuit against Visa U.S.A., merchants are able to reject Visa consumer debit cards in the United States while still accepting other Visa-branded cards, and vice versa. In addition, following the final judgment entered in the litigation the DOJ brought against Visa U.S.A. and Visa International in 1998, as of October 2004, members of Visa U.S.A. may issue certain competing payment cards. Since this final judgment, several members of Visa U.S.A. have begun to issue, or have announced that they will issue, American Express or Discover-branded cards. See Note 21—Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. These and any future limitations on our business resulting from settlements of, or judgments in, pending or potential litigation could limit the fees we charge and reduce our payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. Tax audits or disputes, or changes in the tax laws applicable to us, could materially increase our tax payments. We exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may decrease their accuracy. We are currently under audit by the IRS and other tax authorities and may be subject to additional audits in the future. The tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. In addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental U.S. and international tax reform, may also increase our effective tax rate. A substantial increase in our tax burden could have an adverse effect on our financial results. See also Note 20—Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report. The payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on our customers and us and may lead to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Examples of such regulation include: • Anti-Money Laundering Regulation. This includes the U.S.A. PATRIOT Act and similar regulations in most other countries in which Visa operates. • U.S. Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation. Regulations imposed by the U.S. Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, restrict Visa U.S.A. and Visa International from dealing with certain countries, and parties considered to be connected with money laundering, terrorism or narcotics. Non-U.S. Visa International members may not be similarly restricted, so our payments system may be used for transactions in or involving countries or parties subject to OFAC-administered sanctions. • Regulation of the Price of Credit. Many jurisdictions in which our cards are used have new or proposed regulations that could increase the costs of card issuance or decrease the flexibility of card issuers to charge interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. These include the Credit CARD Act and proposed regulations thereunder and proposed changes to the Federal Truth in Lending Act, which, if implemented along with regulations required to be promulgated under the Credit CARD Act, could result in a decrease in our payments volume and revenues. 19 Table of Contents • Regulation of Internet Transactions. Proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may make it less desirable or more costly to complete Internet transactions using our cards by affecting the legality of those transactions, the law that governs them, their taxation and the allocation of intellectual property rights. • Safety and Soundness Regulation. Recent federal banking regulations may make some financial institutions less attracted to becoming an issuer of our cards, because they may be subject to more conservative accounting procedures, increased risk management and higher capital requirements. Increased regulatory focus in connection with these matters may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause a reduction in payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. Regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of payment cards issued, our payments volume and our revenues. Recently, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the United States (at the federal and state level) and elsewhere on privacy and data use and security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. These measures may materially increase our costs and our customers’ costs and may decrease the number of our cards that our customers issue, materially and adversely affecting our profitability. Our failure, or the failure of our customers, to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions, litigation, and damage to our global reputation and our brand. Government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. Governments in certain countries have acted, or could act, to provide resources or protection to selected national payment card and processing providers in order to support them or to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in their countries. Our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. This could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. If government regulators determine that we are a systemically important payments system, we may have to change our settlement procedures or other operations, which could make it more costly to operate our business and reduce our operational flexibility. A number of international initiatives are underway to maintain financial stability by strengthening financial infrastructure. The Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems of the central banks of the Group of Ten countries has developed a set of core principles for “systemically important payment systems.” Government regulators in the United States or elsewhere may determine that we are a “systemically important payments system” and impose settlement risk management requirements on us, including new settlement procedures or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks or new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system. Any of these developments could make it more costly to operate our business. 20 Table of Contents Our Framework Agreement with Visa Europe includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant liabilities. Under our Framework Agreement with Visa Europe, we are required to indemnify Visa Europe for losses resulting from any claims in the United States or anywhere else outside of Visa Europe’s region arising from our or their activities that relate to our payments business or the payments business of Visa Europe. This obligation applies even if neither we nor any of our related parties or agents participated in the actions that gave rise to such claims. Such an obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. Our retrospective responsibility plan would not cover these liabilities. Business Risks We face intense competitive pressure on customer pricing, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In order to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand our card base, we offer incentives to customers such as up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based growth incentives, marketing support payments and other support, such as marketing consulting and market research studies. Over the past several years, we have increased our use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the United States. In order to stay competitive, we may have to continue to increase our use of incentives. Such pressure may make the provision of certain products and services less profitable or unprofitable and materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and profitability if we continue to increase incentives to our customers, we will need to further increase payments volume or the amount of services we provide in order to benefit incrementally from such arrangements and to increase revenues and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, we enter into long-term contracts with certain customers. Continued pressure on fees could prevent us from entering into such agreements in the future on terms we consider favorable and may require us to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships. Increased pricing pressure also enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives, and we may not succeed in these efforts. Our operating results may suffer because of intense competition in the global payments industry. The global payments industry is intensely competitive. Our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash, checks and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automatic clearing house payments. In addition, our payment programs compete against the card- based payments systems of our competitors, such as MasterCard, American Express, Discover and private-label cards issued by merchants. Some of our competitors may develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer, may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have or may develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. Our competitors may also introduce more innovative programs and services than us. Certain of our competitors, including American Express, Discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers, without involving intermediaries. These competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. In addition, these competitors have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of open-loop multi-party payments systems such as ours. 21 Table of Contents Our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. Most of our larger customer relationships (including those with our largest customers, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America) are not exclusive and in certain circumstances (including, in some cases, on relatively short notice) may be terminated by our customers. Because a significant portion of our operating revenues are concentrated among our largest customers, our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of our largest customers for any reason, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. We also expect that there may be changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including: • Competitors, customers and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing. • Parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain. • Participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business propositions or create new payment services that compete with our services. • Competition may increase from alternative types of payment services, such as online payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or ACH payments. Our failure to compete effectively against any of these threats, could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. Consolidation of the banking industry could result in our losing business and may create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The banking industry has recently undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation, which is likely to continue. Significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in one or more of our largest customers being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business. In addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with or acquire one of our competitors, and any such transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Continued consolidation in the banking industry would also reduce the overall number of our customers and potential customers and could increase the bargaining power of our remaining customers and potential customers. This consolidation could lead financial institutions to seek greater pricing discounts or other incentives with us. In addition, consolidation could prompt our existing customers to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. We may also be adversely affected by price compression should one of our financial institution customers absorb another financial institution and qualify for higher volume-based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged businesses. Pressure on the fees we charge our customers caused by such consolidation could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. In addition, the current economic environment could lead some customers to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, or take other actions that affect adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these customers. 22 Table of Contents Merchants are pursuing litigation and supporting regulatory proceedings relating to the costs associated with payment card acceptance and are negotiating incentive arrangements, including pricing discounts, all of which may increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our profitability. We rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our customers to maintain and expand the acceptance of our payment cards. We believe that consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants that are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. The emphasis merchants are placing on the costs associated with payment card acceptance may lead to additional regulation and litigation, which would not be covered by our retrospective responsibility plan and which could impair our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. We, along with our customers, negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance of our payment cards. If merchants continue to consolidate, our customers and we may have to increase the incentives provided to certain larger merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. Certain financial institutions have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. Certain financial institutions have long-standing exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do material amounts of business with them in order to increase our revenues. In addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow faster than the financial institutions that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Failure to maintain relationships with our customers and other third parties and failure of customers to provide services on our behalf could materially and adversely affect our business. We depend and will continue to depend significantly on relationships with our customers and their relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. We do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. Each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. In addition, we do not generally solicit merchants to accept our cards and we do not establish the discount rates merchants are charged for card acceptance, which are the responsibility of acquirers. As a result, the success of our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our customers and the strength of our relationships with them. In many countries outside of the United States our customers or other processors authorize, clear and settle most domestic (as opposed to cross-border) transactions using our payment cards without involving our processing systems. We depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage the processing of transactions involving our cards, because we do not provide domestic transaction processing services in these countries, do not generally have direct relationships with merchants and never have direct relationships with cardholders. Our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in these countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brand. In addition, we depend on third parties to provide various services on our behalf, and to the extent that third-party vendors fail to deliver services, our business and reputation could be impaired. 23 Table of Contents Our perception in the marketplace may affect our brands and reputation, which are key assets of our business. Our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. The ability to attract and retain consumer cardholders and corporate clients to Visa-branded products depends highly upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry. Our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that change the perception of our brands. From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as “predatory,” which may materially and adversely affect our business. Further, Visa Europe has very broad latitude to operate the Visa business in and use our brands and technology within Visa Europe’s region and we have only limited control over the operation of the Visa business there. Visa Europe is not required to spend any minimum amount of money promoting or building the Visa brand in its region, and the strength of the Visa global brand is contingent, in part, on the efforts of Visa Europe to maintain product and service recognition and quality in Europe. Finally, adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. Global economic, political, health and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending and cross-border travel, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. We depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. The current economic environment could lead some customers to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, or take other actions that affect adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these customers. A significant portion of the revenues we earn outside the United States results from cross-border business and leisure travel. In particular, revenues from processing foreign currency transactions fluctuate with cross-border travel and our customers’ need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. Cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions. These include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, such as H1N1 and avian flu, viruses, such as SARS, and other diseases. In addition, as we are principally domiciled in the United States, a negative perception of the United States could harm the perception of our company, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. We are exposed to a risk of loss or insolvency if our customers fail to fund settlement obligations we have guaranteed. We indemnify Visa customers for any settlement loss suffered due to the failure of a customer to fund its daily settlement obligations. In certain instances, we may indemnify customers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. This indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. The term and amount of the indemnification are unlimited. Concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our largest customers or of several of our smaller customers, or systemic operational failures that last for more than a single-day, may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the amount of such payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Settlement at risk (or exposure) is estimated based on the sum of the following inputs: (1) average daily volumes during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle plus a safety margin; and (2) four months of rolling average chargebacks volume; and (3) the total balance for outstanding travelers cheques. See Note 12—Settlement Guarantee Management to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Some Visa customers are composed of groups of financial institutions. Some of these customers have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with our credit risk policy. To the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow. If our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we cannot process transactions efficiently, the perception of our brands and our revenues or operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of processing or other technology malfunction, fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. Our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer-based attacks, leading to an interruption in service, increased costs or the compromise of data security. Additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. If a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands’ reliability and materially reduce our revenues or profitability. If we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in the payments industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which could reduce our revenues and income. The payments industry is subject to rapid, significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), e-commerce and mobile commerce. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card products and services. In addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes or by third parties’ intellectual property. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. Account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenues. We, our customers, merchants and other third parties store cardholder account information in connection with our payment cards. In addition, our customers may use third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. Breach of the systems on which 25 Table of Contents sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our cards, reputational damage and claims against us. If we are sued in connection with any data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. If unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. In addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach at one or more of our customers, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. Finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our costs. An increase in fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. As outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. If fraud levels involving our cards were to rise, it could lead to reputational damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards, or to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs. Failure to maintain interoperability between Visa Inc.’s and Visa Europe’s authorization and clearing and settlement systems could damage the business and global perception of the Visa brand. With the completion of the deployment of Visa Europe’s own authorization and clearing and settlement systems expected in fiscal 2010, it is incumbent upon both service providers, Visa Inc. and Visa Europe, to ensure their systems can process every transaction regardless of where it originates. The increasingly independent payments system operations of Visa Europe could present challenges to our business due to the heightened difficulty of maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems as they diverge over time. Failure to authorize or clear and settle transactions in a timely and accurate manner could impair the global perception of the Visa brand. Material changes in our customers’ performance compared to our estimates could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations. In certain instances, we offer our customers financial incentives, which are typically tied to their payments volume or transaction messages processed, often under particular programs. These financial incentives are typically recorded as a reduction of revenues. We generally make estimates of our customers’ performance under these programs (sometimes over several years) in order to derive our estimates of the financial incentives that we will pay them. The reduction of revenues that we record each quarter under volume and support agreements is based on these estimates. Material differences between our customers’ performance and our estimates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, if a customer performs better than expected, we may be required to reduce future period revenues to account for the fact that we did not reduce revenues enough in prior periods. On the other hand, if a customer performs worse than expected, we may conclude that we reduced revenues by too much in previous period. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Structure and Organization We have a limited ability to control Visa Europe’s operations and limited recourse in the event of a breach of its obligations to us. Our relationship with Visa Europe is governed by a Framework Agreement, which gives Visa Europe very broad rights to operate the Visa business in its region. Since our reorganization, Visa Europe has not been subject to the same global operating rules as our subsidiaries and customers. If we want to change a global rule or require Visa Europe to implement certain changes that would not have a positive return for Visa Europe and its members, then Visa Europe is not required to implement that rule or change unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs and expenses that Visa Europe and its members will incur as a consequence of the implementation. Our remedies under this agreement, if Visa Europe fails to meet its obligations, are limited. We cannot terminate the Framework Agreement even upon Visa Europe’s material uncured breach, and we can exercise our call right to purchase Visa Europe under only extremely limited circumstances. These and other features of the licenses granted under the Framework Agreement may also raise issues concerning the characterization of the licenses for purposes of tax treatment of entry into the licenses and payments received thereunder. Any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products that we are able to provide could negatively affect cardholders from Visa Europe using cards in our regions or our cardholders using cards in Visa Europe’s region. If Visa Europe makes us acquire all of its outstanding stock, we will incur substantial costs and may suffer a material and adverse effect on our operations and net income. We have granted Visa Europe a put option, which, if exercised, will require us to purchase all of Visa Europe’s outstanding capital stock from its members. We will incur a substantial financial obligation if Visa Europe exercises the put option, which it may do at any time. We cannot estimate the amount of this obligation due to the nature and number of factors involved and the range of important assumptions that would be required, but it could be several billion dollars or more. We may need to obtain third-party financing, either by borrowing funds or by undertaking a subsequent equity offering, in order to meet our obligation. Sufficient financing may not be available to us, on reasonable terms, within the 285 days we would have to pay the exercise price. An equity offering or the payment of part of the exercise price in our stock would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. See Note 3—Visa Europe to our consolidated financial statements include in Item 8 of this report. If Visa Europe exercises the put option, we may encounter difficulties in integrating Visa Europe’s business and systems into our existing operations. If we cannot do so quickly and cost-effectively, the integration could divert the time and attention of senior management, disrupt our current operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We are required to record quarterly any change in the fair value of the put option. These adjustments will be recorded through our consolidated statements of operations, which will therefore affect our reported net income and earnings per share. These quarterly adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. The existence of these charges could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or the price at which we can raise it. See Note 3—Visa Europe to our consolidated financial statements include in Item 8 of this report. We depend on key employees and may be unable to retain them. Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management and other employees are difficult to replace. We may not be able to retain highly qualified employees in the future, which could adversely affect our business. 27 Table of Contents Any acquisitions or strategic investments that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We may make strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, although we have entered into relatively few such transactions in the past. We may not be able to successfully finance, partner with or integrate any such businesses, products or technologies. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition or investment may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. We may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenues. Our cash reserves would be reduced to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash. If we pay the purchase price with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. While we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions and investments. Future sales of our class A common stock or convertible securities, or the expiration or waiver of transfer restrictions on our class B and class C common stock, could result in dilution to our existing class A common stock holders, which may adversely affect their rights and depress the market price of our class A common stock. The market price of our class A common stock and the voting power of our outstanding shares of class A common stock could decline because of increases in the number of such shares outstanding. The market price of our class A common stock may also be adversely affected by the perception that such an increase could occur, such as upon the issuance or conversion of securities convertible to shares of our class A common stock. If funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, holders of our class A common stock will suffer dilution because of a favorable adjustment to the conversion rate of our class B common stock. Our retrospective responsibility plan provides that any amounts remaining in the escrow account after the date on which all of the covered litigation is resolved will be released back to us and that the conversion rate of the class B common stock then outstanding will be adjusted in favor of the holders of the class B common stock. The adjustment would be through a formula based on the released escrow amount and the market price of our class A common stock. If any funds remain in the escrow account and are released back to us, the resulting adjustment in the conversion rate of the class B common stock will result in each share of class B common stock then outstanding becoming convertible into an increased number of shares of class A common stock. This in turn will result in dilution of the interest in Visa Inc. held by the holders of class A common stock. The amount of this dilution will depend on the amount, if any, of the funds released from the escrow account and the market price of our class A common stock at the time those funds are released. All shares of class A common stock acquired by a Visa member, an affiliate of a Visa member or a similar person will be converted automatically into class C common stock and, as a result, will generally not be transferable until March 25, 2011, and they will lose substantially all their voting rights. All shares of common stock acquired by a Visa member, an affiliate of a Visa member or any person that is a competitor or its affiliate, in each case to the extent acting as a principal investor, will be converted automatically into class C common stock. Under the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, class C common stock is generally not transferable until March 25, 2011. After this date has passed, the class C common stock will be convertible into class A common stock only if transferred to a person that was not, immediately after our reorganization, a Visa member, an 28 Table of Contents affiliate of a Visa member or a competitor or its affiliate. Upon such transfer, each share of class C common stock will convert into one share of class A common stock. Holders of our class B and class C common stock have voting rights concerning certain significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of holders of our class A common stock. Although holders of our class B and class C common stock do not have any right to vote on those matters on which stockholders generally are entitled to vote, such as the election of directors, such holders do have the right to vote on certain significant transactions, such as a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business or any other vote required by law. The holders of the class B and class C common stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class A common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. For instance, except for limited exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class A common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding shares on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance. In addition, except for common stock issued to a member in connection with our reorganization or shares issuable on conversion of such common stock, shares held by a competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may not exceed 5% of our total outstanding shares on an as-converted basis. Our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. In August 2008, we commenced quarterly payment of cash dividends on our class A, class B and class C common stock. Any future payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. However, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. Payment of future dividends, if any, would be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. If, because of these factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make payments of dividends of our common stock. Furthermore, no dividend may be declared or paid on any class or series of common stock unless an equivalent dividend is contemporaneously declared and paid on each other class and series of common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 