ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Potential investors should carefully consider the material risks described below and all of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to purchase any of our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occur. None of our securities are currently listed or quoted for trading on any national securities exchange or national quotation system. If and when our securities are traded, the trading price could decline due to any of these risks, and an investor may lose all or part of his investment. Some of these factors have affected our financial condition and operating results in the past or are currently affecting us. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. SRKP 18, INC. There may be conflicts of interest between our management and our non-management stockholders. Conflicts of interest create the risk that management may have an incentive to act adversely to the interests of the Company. A conflict of interest may arise between our management's personal pecuniary interest and its fiduciary duty to our stockholders. In addition, our management is currently involved with other blank check companies, and in the pursuit of business combinations, conflicts with such other blank check companies with which it is, and may in the future become, affiliated, may arise. If we and the other blank check companies that our management is affiliated with desire to take advantage of the same opportunity, then those members of management that are affiliated with both companies would abstain from voting upon the opportunity. In the event of identical officers and directors, the officers and directors will arbitrarily determine the Company that will be entitled to proceed with the proposed transaction. Further, WestPark Capital, Inc. (“WestPark”), a registered broker-dealer, may act as investment banker, placement agent or financial consultant to the Company or an acquisition candidate in connection with a potential business combination transaction. Richard A. Rappaport, our President, director, and one of our controlling stockholders, indirectly holds a 100% interest in, and is the Chief Executive Officer of WestPark, a FINRA member. Anthony C. Pintsopoulos, our Secretary, Chief Financial Officer, director and principal stockholder, is the President and Chief Financial Officer of WestPark. We cannot assure you that conflicts of interest among us, WestPark and our stockholders will not develop. 10 We have a limited operating history. We have a limited operating history and no revenues or earnings from operations since inception, and there is a risk that we will be unable to continue as a going concern and consummate a business combination. We have no significant assets or financial resources. We will, in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a merger or other business combination with a private company. This may result in our incurring a net operating loss that will increase unless we consummate a business combination with a profitable business. We cannot assure you that we can identify a suitable business opportunity and consummate a business combination, or that any such business will be profitable at the time of its acquisition by us or ever. We have incurred and may continue to incur losses. Since inception (January 3, 2007) through December 31, 2008, we have incurred a net loss of $64,308. We expect that we will incur losses at least until we complete a merger or other business combination with an operating business and perhaps after such a combination as well. There can be no assurance that we will complete a merger or other business combination with an operating business or that we will ever be profitable. We face a number of risks associated with potential acquisitions. We intend to use reasonable efforts to complete a merger or other business combination with an operating business. Such combination will be accompanied by risks commonly encountered in acquisitions, including, but not limited to, difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies and insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions we make could harm our business, our strategy and our operating results in a material way. There is competition for those private companies suitable for a merger transaction of the type contemplated by management. The Company is in a highly competitive market for a small number of business opportunities which could reduce the likelihood of consummating a successful business combination. We are, and will continue to be, an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with, joint ventures with and acquisitions of small private and public entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including small public companies and venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be desirable target candidates for us. Nearly all these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do; consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. These competitive factors may reduce the likelihood of our identifying and consummating a successful business combination. Future success is highly dependent on the ability of management to locate and attract a suitable acquisition. The nature of our operations is highly speculative, and there is a consequent risk of loss of your investment. The success of our plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified business opportunity. While management intends to seek business combination(s) with entities having established operating histories, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in locating candidates meeting that criterion. In the event we complete a business combination, the success of our operations may be dependent upon management of the successor firm or venture partner firm and numerous other factors beyond our control. Management intends to devote only a limited amount of time to seeking a target company which may adversely impact our ability to identify a suitable acquisition candidate. While seeking a business combination, management anticipates devoting very limited time to the Company's affairs. Our officers have not entered into written employment agreements with us and are not expected to do so in the foreseeable future. This limited commitment may adversely impact our ability to identify and consummate a successful business combination. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully consummate a business combination. 11 We can give no assurances that we will successfully identify and evaluate suitable business opportunities or that we will conclude a business combination. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on favorable terms. The time and cost of preparing a private company to become a public reporting company may preclude us from entering into a merger or acquisition with the most attractive private companies. Target companies that fail to comply with SEC reporting requirements may delay or preclude acquisition. Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act require reporting companies to provide certain information about significant acquisitions, including certified financial statements for the company acquired, covering one, two, or three years, depending on the relative size of the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target entities to prepare these statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an acquisition. Otherwise suitable acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may be inappropriate for acquisition so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable. The Company may be subject to further government regulation which would adversely affect our operations. Although we are subject to the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, management believes we are not subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), since we are not engaged in the business of investing or trading in securities. If we engage in business combinations which result in our holding passive investment interests in a number of entities, we could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If so, we would be required to register as an investment company and could be expected to incur significant registration and compliance costs. We have obtained no formal determination from the SEC as to our status under the Investment Company Act and, consequently, violation of the Investment Company Act could subject us to material adverse consequences. Any potential acquisition or merger with a foreign company may subject us to additional risks. If we enter into a business combination with a foreign company, we will be subject to risks inherent in business operations outside of the United States. These risks include, for example, currency fluctuations, regulatory problems, punitive tariffs, unstable local tax policies, trade embargoes, risks related to shipment of raw materials and finished goods across national borders and cultural and language differences. Foreign economies may differ favorably or unfavorably from the United States economy in growth of gross national product, rate of inflation, market development, rate of savings, and capital investment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments positions, and in other respects. The Company may be subject to certain tax consequences in our business, which may increase our cost of doing business. We may not be able to structure our acquisition to result in tax-free treatment for the companies or their stockholders, which could deter third parties from entering into certain business combinations with us or result in being taxed on consideration received in a transaction. Currently, a transaction may be structured so as to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, as prescribed by various federal and state tax provisions. We intend to structure any business combination so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to both us and the target entity; however, we cannot guarantee that the business combination will meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization or that the parties will obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of stock or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes that may have an adverse effect on both parties to the transaction. Our business will have no revenue unless and until we merge with or acquire an operating business. We are a development stage company and have had no revenue from operations. We do not expect to realize any revenue unless and until we successfully merge with or acquire an operating business. Because we may seek to complete a business combination through a “reverse merger,” following such a transaction we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. Additional risks may exist since we expect to assist a privately held business to become public through a “reverse merger.” Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of our Company since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will want to conduct any secondary offerings on behalf of our post-merger company in the future. 12 We cannot assure you that following a business combination with an operating business, our common stock will be listed on NASDAQ or any other securities exchange. Following a business combination, we may seek the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ or the NYSE Amex (formerly the American Stock Exchange). However, we cannot assure you that following such a transaction, we will be able to meet the initial listing standards of either of those or any other stock exchange, or that we will be able to maintain a listing of our common stock on either of those or any other stock exchange. After completing a business combination, until our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ or another stock exchange, we expect that our common stock would be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the “pink sheets,” where our stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the common stock. In addition, we would be subject to an SEC rule that, if it failed to meet the criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital following a business combination. Our stockholders may have a minority interest in the Company following a merger or other business combination with an operating business. If we consummate a merger or business combination with a company with a value in excess of the value of our Company and issue shares of common stock to the stockholders of such company as consideration for merging with us, our stockholders would own less than 50% of the Company after the business combination. The stockholders of the acquired company would therefore be able to control the election of our board of directors and control our Company. There is currently no trading market for our common stock, and liquidity of shares of our common stock is limited. Shares of our common stock are not registered under the securities laws of any state or other jurisdiction, and accordingly there is no public trading market for the common stock. Further, no public trading market is expected to develop in the foreseeable future unless and until the Company completes a business combination with an operating business and the Company thereafter files a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Therefore, outstanding shares of common stock cannot be offered, sold, pledged or otherwise transferred unless subsequently registered pursuant to, or exempt from registration under, the Securities Act and any other applicable federal or state securities laws or regulations. Shares of common stock cannot be sold under the exemptions from registration provided by Rule 144 under or Section 4(1) of the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), in accordance with the letter from Richard K. Wulff, Chief of the Office of Small Business Policy of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance, to Ken Worm of NASD Regulation, dated January 21, 2000 (the “Wulff Letter”). The Wulff Letter provides that certain private transfers of the shares of common stock also may be prohibited without registration under federal securities laws. The SEC changed certain aspects of the Wulff Letter and such changes apply retroactively to our stockholders. Since February 15, 2008, all holders of shares of common stock of a “shell company” have been permitted to sell their shares of common stock under Rule 144, subject to certain restrictions, starting one year after (i) the completion of a business combination with a private company in a reverse merger or reverse takeover transaction after which the company would cease to be a “shell company” (as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act) and (ii) the disclosure of certain information on a Current Report on Form 8-K within four business days thereafter. Compliance with the criteria for securing exemptions under federal securities laws and the securities laws of the various states is extremely complex, especially in respect of those exemptions affording flexibility and the elimination of trading restrictions in respect of securities received in exempt transactions and subsequently disposed of without registration under the Securities Act or state securities laws. There are issues impacting liquidity of our securities with respect to the SEC’s review of a future resale registration statement. Since shares of our common Stock issued prior to a business combination or reverse merger cannot currently, nor will they for a considerable period of time after we complete a business combination, be available to be offered, sold, pledged or otherwise transferred without being registered pursuant to the Securities Act, we will likely file a resale registration statement on Form S-1, or some other available form, to register for resale such shares of common stock. We cannot control this future registration process in all respects as some matters are outside our control. Even if we are successful in causing the effectiveness of the resale registration statement, there can be no assurances that the occurrence of subsequent events may not preclude our ability to maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement. Any of the foregoing items could have adverse effects on the liquidity of our shares of common stock. 13 In addition, the SEC has recently disclosed that it has developed internal informal guidelines concerning the use of a resale registration statement to register the securities issued to certain investors in private investment in public equity (PIPE) transactions, where the issuer has a market capitalization of less than $75 million and, in general, does not qualify to file a Registration Statement on Form S-3 to register its securities if the issuer's securities are listed on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or on the Pink Sheets. The SEC has taken the position that these smaller issuers may not be able to rely on Rule 415 under the Securities Act (“Rule 415”), which generally permits the offer and sale of securities on a continued or delayed basis over a period of time, but instead would require that the issuer offer and sell such securities in a direct or "primary" public offering, at a fixed price, if the facts and circumstances are such that the SEC believes the investors seeking to have their shares registered are underwriters and/or affiliates of the issuer. It appears that the SEC in most cases will permit a registration for resale of up to one-third of the total number of shares of common stock then currently owned by persons who are not affiliates of such issuer and, in some cases, a larger percentage depending on the facts and circumstances. Staff members also have indicated that an issuer in most cases will have to wait until the later of six months after effectiveness of the first registration or such time as substantially all securities registered in the first registration are sold before filing a subsequent registration on behalf of the same investors. Since, following a reverse merger or business combination, we may have little or no tradable shares of common stock, it is unclear as to how many, if any, shares of common stock the SEC will permit us to register for resale, but SEC staff members have indicated a willingness to consider a higher percentage in connection with registrations following reverse mergers with shell companies such as the Company. The SEC may require as a condition to the declaration of effectiveness of a resale registration statement that we reduce or “cut back” the number of shares of common stock to be registered in such registration statement. The result of the foregoing is that a stockholder’s liquidity in common stock may be adversely affected in the event the SEC requires a cut back of the securities as a condition to allow the Company to rely on Rule 415 with respect to a resale registration statement, or, if the SEC requires us to file a primary registration statement. We have never paid dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not presently intend to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that any funds available for payment of dividends will be re-invested into the Company to further its business strategy. The Company intends to issue more shares in a merger or acquisition, which will result in substantial dilution. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of a maximum of 100,000,000 shares of common stock and a maximum of 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. Any merger or acquisition effected by us may result in the issuance of additional securities without stockholder approval and the substantial dilution in the percentage of common stock held by our then existing stockholders. Moreover, the common stock issued in any such merger or acquisition transaction may be valued on an arbitrary or non-arm’s-length basis by our management, resulting in an additional reduction in the percentage of common stock held by our current stockholders. Our board of directors has the power to issue any or all of such authorized but unissued shares without stockholder approval. To the extent that additional shares of common stock or preferred stock are issued in connection with a business combination or otherwise, dilution to the interests of our stockholder will occur and the rights of the holder of common stock might be materially and adversely affected. Our stockholders may engage in a transaction to cause the Company to repurchase their shares of common stock. In order to provide an interest in the Company to a third party, our stockholders may choose to cause the Company to sell Company securities to third parties, with the proceeds of such sale being utilized by the Company to repurchase their shares of common stock. As a result of such transaction, our management, stockholders and board of directors may change. Our board of directors has the power to issue shares of preferred stock with certain rights without stockholder approval. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time to time by its board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our authorized preferred stock, there can be no assurance that we will not do so in the future. 14 Control by management. As of December 31, 2008, management voted approximately 85.12% of all the issued and outstanding common stock of the Company. Consequently, management has the ability to influence control of the operations of the Company and, acting together, will have the ability to influence substantially all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including: · Election of the board of directors; · Removal of any directors; · Amendment of the Company’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and · Adoption of measures that could delay or prevent a change in control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination. These stockholders will thus have substantial influence and control over our management and affairs. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business consolidation, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. ZST DIGITAL NETWORKS, INC. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales in the PRC and any downturn in the Chinese economy could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Substantially all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. We anticipate that revenues from sales of our products in the PRC will continue to represent the substantial portion of our total revenues in the near future. Our sales and earnings can also be affected by changes in the general economy since purchases of cable television services are generally discretionary for consumers. Our success is influenced by a number of economic factors which affect disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, oil and gas prices and taxation rates. Adverse changes in these economic factors, among others, may restrict consumer spending, thereby negatively affecting our sales and profitability. We are and will continue to be subject to rapidly declining average selling prices, which may harm our results of operations. Set-top boxes and networking products such as those we offer are often subject to declines in average selling prices due to rapidly evolving technologies, industry standards and consumer preferences. These products are also subject to rapid technological changes which often cause product obsolescence. Companies within our industry are continuously developing new products with heightened performance and functionality. This puts pricing pressure on existing products and constantly threatens to make them, or causes them to be, obsolete. Our typical product’s life cycle is short, typically generating lower average selling prices as the cycle matures. If we fail to accurately anticipate the introduction of new technologies, we may possess significant amounts of obsolete inventory that can only be sold at substantially lower prices and profit margins than we anticipated. In addition, if we fail to accurately anticipate the introduction of new technologies, we may be unable to compete effectively due to our failure to offer products most demanded by the marketplace. If any of these failures occur, our sales, profit margins and profitability will be adversely affected. In addition, network systems operators expect suppliers, such as our Company, to cut their costs and lower the price of their products to lessen the negative impact on their own profit margins. As a result, we have previously reduced the price of some of our products and expect to continue to face market-driven downward pricing pressures in the future. Our results of operations will suffer if we are unable to offset any declines in the average selling prices of our products by developing new or enhanced products with higher selling prices or gross profit margins, increasing our sales volumes or reducing our production costs. If we do not correctly forecast demand for our products, we could have costly excess production or inventories and we may not be able to secure sufficient or cost effective quantities of our products or production materials and our revenues, cost of revenues and financial condition could be adversely affected. 15 The demand for our products depends on many factors, including pricing and inventory levels, and is difficult to forecast due in part to variations in economic conditions, changes in consumer and business preferences, relatively short product life cycles, changes in competition, seasonality and reliance on key third party carriers. It is particularly difficult to forecast demand by individual product. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand, the timing and disclosure of new product releases or the timing of key sales orders could result in costly excess production or inventories or the inability to secure sufficient, cost-effective quantities of our products or production materials. These inventory risks are particularly acute during end product transitions in which a new generation of set-top boxes is being deployed and inventory of older generation set-top boxes is at a higher risk of obsolescence. Furthermore, because of the competitive nature of the set-top box business and the short-term nature of our purchase orders, we could in the future be required to reduce the average selling-prices of our set-top boxes, which in turn would adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. This could adversely impact our revenues, cost of revenues and financial condition. We depend on sales of set-top boxes for a substantial portion of our revenue, and if sales of our set-top boxes decline or we are not able to penetrate new markets for set-up boxes, our business and financial position will suffer. The substantial portion of our revenues consists primarily of sales of our set-top boxes. In addition, we currently derive, and expect to continue to derive in the near term, revenue from sales of our set-top boxes to a limited number of customers. Continued market acceptance of our set-top boxes is critical to our future success. If we are not able to expand sales of our set-top boxes to other providers of digital television, our growth prospects will be limited, and our revenues will be substantially impacted. Our set-up boxes were initially designed for, and have been deployed mostly by, providers of cable-delivered digital television. To date, we have not made any sales of our set-top boxes to direct-to-home satellite providers. In addition, the set-top box market is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. In particular, we believe that most set-top boxes are sold by a small number of well entrenched competitors who have long-standing relationships with direct-to-home satellite providers. This competition may make it more difficult for us to sell home satellite set-top boxes, and may result in pricing pressure, small profit margins, high sales and marketing expenses and failure to obtain market share, any of which could likely seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may suffer if cable television operators, who currently comprise our customer base, do not compete successfully with existing and emerging alternative platforms for delivering digital television, including terrestrial networks, internet protocol television and direct-to-home satellite service providers. Our existing customers are cable television operators, which compete with direct-to-home satellite video providers and terrestrial broadcasters for the same pool of viewers. As technologies develop, other means of delivering information and entertainment to television viewers are evolving. For example, some telecommunications companies are seeking to compete with terrestrial broadcasters, cable television network operators and direct-to-home satellite services by offering internet protocol television, which allows telecommunications companies to stream television programs through telephone lines or fiber optic lines. To the extent that the terrestrial television networks, telecommunications companies and direct-to-home satellite providers compete successfully against cable television networks services for viewers, the ability of our existing customer base to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. As a result, demand for our set-top boxes could decline and we may not be able to sustain our current revenue levels. Growth in our set-top box business likely requires commencement of sales to international customers and we may be unsuccessful in commencing or thereafter expanding international sales. We believe that in order to grow our revenue and business and to build a larger customer base, we need to commence sales of our set-top boxes and networking products in international markets. We have no prior experience selling our set-top boxes or networking products internationally. To succeed in these sales efforts, we believe we must hire additional sales personnel and develop and manage new relationships with cable operators and other providers of digital television in international markets. If we do not succeed in our efforts to sell to these target markets and customers, the size of our total addressable market may be limited. This, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. Our products may contain errors or defects, which could result in the rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased service costs, warranty claims and litigation. Our products are complex and must meet stringent user requirements. In addition, we must develop our products to keep pace with the rapidly changing markets. Sophisticated products like ours are likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products and jeopardize our relationship with carriers. End users may also reject or find issues with our products and have a right to return them even if the products are free from errors or defects. In either case, returns or quality issues could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs, and warranty claims and litigation which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 We intend to make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies. Investments in new technology are inherently speculative and commercial success depends on many factors including novelty, service and support, and effective sales and marketing. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may be minimal. We are subject to intense competition in the industry in which we operate, which could cause material reductions in the selling price of our products or losses of our market share. The market for set-top boxes and networking products is highly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new products and features. Our products compete primarily on the basis of: · reliability; · brand recognition; · quality; · price; · design; and · quality service and support to retailers and our customers. Currently, there are many significant competitors in the set-top box business including several established companies who have sold set-top boxes to major cable operators for many years. These competitors include companies such as Motorola, Cisco Systems, and Pace. In addition, a number of rapidly growing companies have recently entered the market, many of them with set-top box offerings similar to our existing set-top box products. We also expect additional competition in the future from new and existing companies who do not currently compete in the market for set-top boxes. As the set-top box business evolves, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including software and hardware companies that could acquire significant market share, which could adversely affect our business. We also face competition from set-top boxes that have been internally developed by digital video providers. In recent years, we and many of our competitors, have regularly lowered prices, and we expect these pricing pressures to continue. If these pricing pressures are not mitigated by increases in volume, cost reductions from our supplier or changes in product mix, our revenues and profits could be substantially reduced. As compared to us, many of our competitors have: · significantly longer operating histories; · significantly greater managerial, financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources; and · greater brand recognition. As a result, our competitors may be able to: · adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; · devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services; and · respond more effectively to pricing pressures. 17 These factors could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, competition could increase if: · new companies enter the market; · existing competitors expand their product mix; or · we expand into new markets. An increase in competition could result in material price reductions or loss of our market share. Changes in existing technologies or the emergence of new products or technologies could significantly harm our business. Our businesses change rapidly as new technologies are developed. These new technologies may cause our services and products to become obsolete. Changes in existing technologies could also cause demand for our products and services to decline. For example, if changes in technology allow digital television subscribers to use devices such as personal computers, cable ready televisions and network based digital video recording services in place of set-top boxes, our customers may not need to purchase our set-top boxes to provide their digital television subscribers with digital video recording and other set-top box features. One or more new technologies also could be introduced that compete favorably with our set-top boxes or that cause our set-top boxes to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. We and our suppliers also may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. Alternatively, if the new technologies on which we intend to focus our research and development investments fail to achieve acceptance in the marketplace, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our future competitive position that could cause a reduction in our revenues and earnings. Our competitors could also obtain or develop proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to ours. Further, after we have incurred substantial research and development costs, one or more of the technologies under development could become obsolete prior to its introduction. Finally, delays in the delivery of components or other unforeseen problems may occur that could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue, offer new products and services and remain competitive. Technological innovation is important to our success and depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of these types of employees is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain these employees. If we are unable to attract and maintain technically skilled employees, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. The loss or significant reduction in business of any of our key customers could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We are highly dependent upon sales of our products to certain of our customers. During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, Neihuang Radio & Television Bureau and Kaifeng Radio & Television Bureau both accounted for approximately 10% of our net revenues. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, Nanyang Radio & Television Bureau, Mengzhou Radio & Television Bureau and Xuchang Radio & Television Bureau accounted for approximately 16%, 14% and 13%, respectively, of our net revenues. During the fiscal year December 31, 2006, Kaifeng Radio & Television Bureau, Xinye Radio & Television Bureau, Xuchang Radio & Television Bureau, Huaxian Radio & Television Bureau and Nanyang Radio & Television Bureau accounted for approximately 24%, 24%, 19%, 13% and 10%, respectively, of our net revenues. No other customer accounted for greater than 5% of our net revenues during these periods. All purchases of our products by customers are made through purchase orders and we do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. The loss of Neihuang County Broadcasting Television Information Network Center and Henan Cable TV Network Group Co., Ltd. Kaifeng Branch, or any of our other customers to which we sell a significant amount of our products or any significant portion of orders from Cable TV Station of Pingdingshan and Cable TV Station of Nanyang, or such other customers or any material adverse change in the financial condition of such customers could negatively affect our revenues and decrease our earnings. We cannot rely on long-term purchase orders or commitments to protect us from the negative financial effects of a decline in demand for our products. The limited certainty of product orders can make it difficult for us to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with our actual sales. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales and, if our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. Cancellations or reductions of customer orders could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. Furthermore, because we depend on a small number of customers for the vast majority of our sales, the magnitude of the ramifications of these risks is greater than if our sales were less concentrated with a small number of customers. As a result of our lack of long-term purchase orders and purchase commitments we may experience a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. 18 In addition, there is a relatively small number of potential new customers for our set-top boxes and we expect this customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the continued success of these customers. If we do not develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components for our products. The inability to secure components for our products could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our relationship with our customers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for our component parts and raw materials. Although there are many suppliers for each of our component parts and raw materials, we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for many of the significant components and raw materials. This reliance involves a number of significant potential risks, including: · lack of availability of materials and interruptions in delivery of components and raw materials from our suppliers; · manufacturing delays caused by such lack of availability or interruptions in delivery; · fluctuations in the quality and the price of components and raw materials, in particular due to the petroleum price impact on such materials; and · risks related to foreign operations. We generally do not have any long-term or exclusive purchase commitments with any of our suppliers. Hangzhou Jingbao Electronic Ltd., Farway Electronics Factory and Henan Hui-ke Electronics Co., Ltd. are our largest suppliers of components for our products, each of which accounted for more than 10% of our purchases of components for our products for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Our failure to maintain existing relationships with our suppliers or to establish new relationships in the future could also negatively affect our ability to obtain our components and raw materials used in our products in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain ample supply of products from our existing suppliers or alternative sources of supply, we may be unable to satisfy our customers’ orders which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our customers. Certain disruptions in supply of and changes in the competitive environment for components and raw materials integral to our products may adversely affect our profitability. We use a broad range of materials and supplies, including LCDs, ICs, flash memories, WiFi modules, GPS modules, capacitors, resistors, switches, connectors, batteries and other electronic components in our products. A significant disruption in the supply of these materials could decrease production and shipping levels, materially increase our operating costs and materially adversely affect our profit margins. Shortages of materials or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages, war, acts of terrorism or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor or transportation in the markets in which we purchase materials, components and supplies for the production of our products, in each case may adversely affect our ability to maintain production of our products and sustain profitability. If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components and raw materials from any of our suppliers and could not procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to meet our production schedules for some of our key products and to ship such products to our customers in a timely fashion, which would adversely affect our sales, margins and customer relations. Substantial defaults by our customers on accounts receivable or the loss of significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or to make payments in a timely manner, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. An economic or industry downturn could materially adversely affect the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. A significant deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could also impact the cost or availability of financing available to us. In addition, our business is characterized by long periods for collection from our customers and short periods for payment to our suppliers, the combination of which may cause us to have liquidity problems. We experience an average accounts settlement period ranging from one month to as high as four months from the time we sell our products to the time we receive payment from our customers. In contrast, we typically need to place certain deposits and advances with our suppliers on a portion of the purchase price in advance and for some suppliers we must maintain a deposit for future orders. Because our payment cycle is considerably shorter than our receivable cycle, we may experience working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. We cannot assure you that system problems, industry trends or other issues will not extend our collection period, adversely impact our working capital. 19 Our operations would be materially adversely affected if third-party carriers were unable to transport our products on a timely basis. All of our products are shipped through third party carriers. If a strike or other event prevented or disrupted these carriers from transporting our products, other carriers may be unavailable or may not have the capacity to deliver our products to our customers. If adequate third party sources to ship our products were unavailable at any time, our business would be materially adversely affected. Changes in consumer spending and economic conditions, may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Our net revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The main factors that may cause these fluctuations are: · seasonal variations in operating results; · variations in the sales of our products to our significant customers; · variations in manufacturing and supplier relationships; · if we are unable to correctly anticipate and provide for inventory requirements from quarter to quarter, we may not have sufficient inventory to deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion or we may have excess inventory that we are unable to sell; · the discretionary nature of our customers’ demands and spending patterns; · changes in market and economic conditions; and · competition. In addition, our quarterly operating results could be materially adversely affected by political instability, war, acts of terrorism or other disasters. As a result of these and other factors, revenues for any quarter are subject to significant variation, which may adversely affect our results of operations and the market price for our common stock. We depend upon a patent we license from a third party, Zhong Bo, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. The loss of this license, an increase in the costs of this license or Mr. Zhong’s failure to properly maintain or enforce the patent underlying such license may require us to suspend our operations until we obtain replacements and/or redesign our products. We rely upon certain patents licensed from our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Zhong Bo, which gives us rights to third party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. We may also enter into additional licenses to third party intellectual property in the future. In addition, because we do not own any patents relating to our technologies, we do not have the right to defend perceived infringements of patents relating to such technologies. Thus, our success will depend in part on the ability and willingness of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications for the intellectual property we have licensed. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Our ability to compete partly depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our technologies, including both internally developed technology and technology licensed from third parties. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, any of the following occurrences may reduce the value of our intellectual property: 20 · our applications for trademarks or patents may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated; · issued patents, copyrights and trademarks may not provide us with any competitive advantages; · our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology or dilution of our trademarks; · our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those that we develop; or · another party may obtain a blocking patent that would force us to either obtain a license or design around the patent to continue to offer the contested feature or service in our technologies. We rely on trade secret protections through confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers and other parties; the breach of such agreements could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We also rely on trade secrets, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, customers and other parties. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information that may not be resolved in our favor. We may be involved from time to time in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of effort by our management and technical personnel. We intend to pursue future acquisitions. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. Part of our growth strategy involves the acquisition of other companies. Any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. We intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. However, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. In addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. We regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. If we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Future acquisitions could likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. The successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new products and services. In addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. We will need additional capital to implement our current business strategy, which may not be available to us, and if we raise additional capital, it may dilute your ownership in us. Although in connection with the Share Exchange we are currently conducting a private placement transaction whereby we expect to receive gross proceeds of approximately $5 million (the “Private Placement”), we currently depend on bank loans and net revenues to meet our short-term cash requirements. In order to grow revenues and sustain profitability, we will need additional capital. As of the date of this report, we do intend to conduct a public offering financing. Obtaining additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any additional financing. If we are unable to obtain the financing needed to implement our business strategy, our ability to increase revenues will be impaired and we may not be able to sustain profitability. 21 The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We have historically relied on credit to fund our business and we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to operate and grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Our failure to effectively manage growth could harm our business. We have rapidly and significantly expanded the number and types of products we sell, and we will endeavor to further expand our product portfolio. We must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products in order to remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions of our existing products. This expansion of our products places a significant strain on our management, operations and engineering resources. Specifically, the areas that are strained most by our growth include the following: · New Product Launch. With the growth of our product portfolio, we experience increased complexity in coordinating product development, manufacturing, and shipping. As this complexity increases, it places a strain on our ability to accurately coordinate the commercial launch of our products with adequate supply to meet anticipated customer demand and effective marketing to stimulate demand and market acceptance. If we are unable to scale and improve our product launch coordination, we could frustrate our customers and lose retail shelf space and product sales; · Forecasting, Planning and Supply Chain Logistics. With the growth of our product portfolio, we also experience increased complexity in forecasting customer demand and in planning for production, and transportation and logistics management. If we are unable to scale and improve our forecasting, planning and logistics management, we could frustrate our customers, lose product sales or accumulate excess inventory; and · Support Processes. To manage the growth of our operations, we will need to continue to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, and procedures and controls to effectively manage the increased complexity. If we are unable to scale and improve these areas, the consequences could include: delays in shipment of product, degradation in levels of customer support, lost sales, decreased cash flows, and increased inventory. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to expand. We are dependent on certain key personnel and loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and operational and technical expertise of certain key personnel. Each of the named executive officers performs key functions in the operation of our business. The loss of a significant number of these employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on a technically trained workforce and an inability to retain or effectively recruit such employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees to develop and manufacture our products and provide service support. Our ability to implement effectively our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced engineering and other technical and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for technologically qualified personnel in our business and we may not be successful in recruiting or retaining sufficient qualified personnel consistent with our operational needs. 22 Our facilities and information systems could be damaged as a result of disasters or unpredictable events, which could have an adverse effect on our business operations. Our headquarters and major facilities including manufacturing plants, sales offices and research and development centers are located in China. We also operate procurement, logistics, sales and marketing facilities in other parts of the world. If major disasters such as earthquakes, fires, floods, wars, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, transportation disasters or other events occur, or our information system or communications network breaks down or operates improperly as a result of such events, our facilities may be seriously damaged, and we may have to stop or delay production and shipment. We may incur expenses relating to such damages. Our quarterly results may fluctuate because of many factors and, as a result, investors should not rely on quarterly operating results as indicative of future results. Fluctuations in operating results or the failure of operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact the value of our securities. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect revenues or expenses in any particular quarter. Fluctuations in quarterly operating results could cause the value of our securities to decline. Investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations as an indication of future performance. As a result of the factors listed below, it is possible that in future periods results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: · vulnerability of our business to a general economic downturn in China; · fluctuation and unpredictability of costs related to the components and raw materials used to manufacture our products; · seasonality of our business; · changes in the laws of the PRC that affect our operations; · competition from our competitors; and · our ability to obtain necessary government certifications and/or licenses to conduct our business. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China, and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and accordingly on the results of our operations and financial condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under the current government leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations that are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof, may have a material and adverse effect on our business. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States, decided legal cases have little value as precedent in China. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy or criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. 23 Our principal operating subsidiary, Zhengzhou Shenyang Technology Company Limited (“Zhengzhou ZST”), is considered a foreign invested enterprise under PRC laws, and as a result is required to comply with PRC laws and regulations, including laws and regulations specifically governing the activities and conduct of foreign invested enterprises. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. If the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · levying fines; · revoking our business license, other licenses or authorities; · requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and · requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. Investors may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against us or our management. Most of our current operations, including the manufacturing and distribution of our products, are conducted in China. Moreover, all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of China. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. The scope of our business license in China is limited, and we may not expand or continue our business without government approval and renewal, respectively. Our principal operating subsidiary, Zhengzhou ZST, is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, commonly known as a WFOE. A WFOE can only conduct business within its approved business scope, which ultimately appears on its business license. Our license permits us to design, manufacture, sell and market portable electronic products throughout the PRC and overseas. Any amendment to the scope of our business requires further application and government approval. In order for us to expand our business beyond the scope of our license, we will be required to enter into a negotiation with the PRC authorities for the approval to expand the scope of our business. We cannot assure investors that Zhengzhou ZST will be able to obtain the necessary government approval for any change or expansion of its business. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations related to our manufacturing operations. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot assure you that at all times we will be in compliance with environmental laws and regulations or that we will not be required to expend significant funds to comply with, or discharge liabilities arising under, environmental laws, regulations and permits. Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate. Our failure to obtain required prior approval for the share exchange, reverse merger and the listing and trading of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE,” issued a public notice in November 2005, known as Circular 75, concerning the use of offshore holding companies controlled by PRC residents in mergers and acquisitions in China. This circular requires that (1) a PRC resident shall register with a local branch of the SAFE before he or she establishes or controls an overseas special purpose vehicle, or SPV, for the purpose of overseas equity financing (including convertible debt financing); (2) when a PRC resident contributes the assets of or his or her equity interests in a domestic enterprise to an SPV, or engages in overseas financing after contributing assets or equity interests to an SPV, such PRC resident must register his or her interest in the SPV and any changes in such interest with a local branch of the SAFE; and (3) when the SPV undergoes a material change outside of China, such as a change in share capital or merger or acquisition, the PRC resident shall, within 30 days from the occurrence of the event that triggers the change, register such change with a local branch of the SAFE. In addition, SAFE issued updated internal implementing rules, or the Implementing Rules in relation to Circular 75. The Implementing Rules were promulgated and became effective on May 29, 2007. Such Implementing Rules provide more detailed provisions and requirements regarding the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures. However, even after the promulgation of Implementing Rules there still exist uncertainties regarding the SAFE registration for PRC residents’ interests in overseas companies. If any PRC resident stockholder of a SPV fails to make the required SAFE registration and amended registration, the onshore PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore entity. Failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Because of uncertainty in how the SAFE notice will be interpreted and enforced, we cannot be sure how it will affect our business operations or future plans. For example, Zhengzhou ZST’s ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE notice by our PRC resident beneficial holders over whom we have no control. In addition, we cannot assure you that such PRC residents will be able to complete the necessary approval and registration procedures required by the SAFE regulations. Failure by any PRC resident beneficial holder to register as required with the relevant branch of SAFE could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit Zhengzhou ZST’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. 24 On August 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, released a substantially amended version of the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge with or Acquire Domestic Enterprises (the “Revised M&A Regulations”), which took effect September 8, 2006. These new rules significantly revised China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-to-offshore restructurings and foreign acquisitions of domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. Among other things, the revised M&A Regulations include new provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or a SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. According to the M&A Regulations, a “Related Party Acquisition” is defined as having taken place when a PRC business that is owned by PRC individual(s) is sold to a non-PRC entity that is established or controlled, directly or indirectly, by those same PRC individual(s). Under the M&A Regulations, any Related Party Acquisition must be approved by MOFCOM and any indirect arrangement or series of arrangements which achieves the same end result without the approval of MOFCOM is a violation of PRC law. Our BVI subsidiary, World Orient, World Orient’s BVI subsidiary, Global Asia, and Global’s Asia’s Hong Kong subsidiary, Everfair, were owned by non-PRC individuals. Everfair obtained all the equity interests of Zhengzhou ZST further to an Equity Purchase Agreement dated October 10, 2008 (the “Equity Purchase Agreement”) by and among Everfair, Zhong Bo, Wu Dexiu, Huang Jiankang, Sun Hui and Li Yuting. The Equity Purchase Agreement received approval by the Zhengzhou Municipal Bureau of Commerce on November 10, 2008 and Zhengzhou ZST filed all required applications and received all appropriate SAFE approvals from the Henan branch of SAFE. On January 14, 2009, Zhong Bo, our Chief Executive Officer, Wu Dexiu, Huang Jiankang, Sun Hui and Li Yuting (the “ZST Management”) purchased an aggregate of 12,530,000 shares of our common stock at a per share purchase price of $0.2806 (the “Purchase Right”). Each of the stockholders and warrantholders of the Company prior to the Share Exchange agreed to cancel 0.3317shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 0.5328 shares of common stock held by each of them for each one (1) share of common stock purchased by the ZST Management pursuant to the Purchase Right. After giving effect to the Purchase Right, Mr. Zhong owns approximately 61% of our outstanding common stock (assuming the full conversion of the maximum number of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock issued in the Private Placement as of the date of this report). 25 The PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the acquisition of Zhengzhou ZST by Everfair, the Share Exchange and the Purchase Right are part of an overall series of arrangements which constitute a Related Party Acquisition, because at the end of these transactions, PRC individuals become majority owners and effective controlling parties of a foreign entity that acquired ownership of Zhengzhou ZST. The PRC regulatory authorities may also take the view that the registration of the acquisition of Zhengzhou ZST by Everfair with the Zhengzhou Municipal Bureau of Commerce and the filings with the Henan SAFE may not evidence that the acquisition has been properly approved because the relevant parties did not fully disclose to the Zhengzhou Bureau of Commerce or Henan SAFE of the overall restructuring arrangements, the existence of the Share Exchange and its link with the acquisition of Zhengzhou ZST by Everfair. The PRC legal counsel of Zhengzhou ZST, Han Kun Law Offices, has opined that: (1) the Equity Purchase Agreement and the transactions thereunder have received all requisite approvals from the competent authorities, and all required registrations, certifications and approvals for the Equity Purchase Agreement and the transactions thereunder have been received by Zhengzhou ZST; (2) Zhengzhou ZST has filed all required applications for the Equity Purchase Agreement and the transactions thereunder and has received any and all foreign exchange registrations, certifications and approvals as required, including, but not limited to, those as required from the appropriate national and local branches of SAFE and MOFCOM; and (3) to their best knowledge, the Equity Purchase Agreement and the transactions thereunder do not (a) contravene or circumvent any provision of applicable PRC laws and regulations, including without limitation, the M&A Regulations, Circular 75 and its implementing rules; or (b) contravene the articles of association, business license or other constituent documents of Zhengzhou ZST. We, however, cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities, MOFCOM in particular, may take the same view as the PRC legal counsel. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the acquisition constitutes a Related Party Acquisition under the M&A Regulations, we cannot assure you we may be able to obtain the approval required from the national offices of MOFCOM. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the acquisition of Zhengzhou ZST by Everfair constitutes a Related Party Acquisition without the approval of the national offices of MOFCOM, they could invalidate our acquisition and ownership of Zhengzhou ZST. Additionally, the PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the Share Exchange constitutes a transaction which requires the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC. If this takes place, we would attempt to find a way to re-establish control of Zhengzhou ZST’s business operations through a series of contractual arrangements rather than an outright purchase of Zhengzhou ZST. But we cannot assure you that any such contractual arrangements will be protected by PRC law or that the Company can receive as complete or effective economic benefit and overall control of Zhengzhou ZST’s business than if the Company had direct ownership of Zhengzhou ZST. In addition, we cannot assure you that any such contractual arrangements can be successfully effected under PRC law. If we cannot obtain MOFCOM or CSRC approval if required by the PRC regulatory authorities to do so, and if we cannot put in place or enforce relevant contractual arrangements as an alternative and equivalent means of control of Zhengzhou ZST, our business and financial performance will be materially adversely affected. If the CSRC approval is not obtained, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from any financings into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. The CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies also may take actions requiring us, or making it advisable for us, to halt the proposed public offering before settlement and delivery of the common stock offered thereby. Consequently, if investors engage in market trading or other activities in anticipation of and prior to settlement and delivery, they do so at the risk that settlement and delivery may not occur. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, published news reports in China recently indicated that the CSRC may have curtailed or suspended overseas listings for Chinese private companies. These news reports have created further uncertainty regarding the approach that the CSRC and other PRC regulators may take with respect to us. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of the aforementioned rules and regulations. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and we will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure that our domestic and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. 26 Our labor costs are likely to increase as a result of changes in Chinese labor laws. We expect to experience an increase in our cost of labor due to recent changes in Chinese labor laws which are likely to increase costs further and impose restrictions on our relationship with our employees. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law and more strictly enforced existing labor laws. The new law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, amended and formalized workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. As a result of the new law, the Company has had to reduce the number of hours of overtime its employees can work, substantially increase the salaries of its employees, provide additional benefits to its employees, and revise certain other of its labor practices. The increase in labor costs has increased the Company’s operating costs, which increase the Company has not always been able to pass through to its customers. As a result, the Company has incurred certain operating losses as its cost of manufacturing increased. In addition, under the new law, employees who either have worked for the Company for 10 years or more or who have had two consecutive fixed-term contracts must be given an “open-ended employment contract” that, in effect, constitutes a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in the event the employee materially breaches the Company’s rules and regulations or is in serious dereliction of his duty. Such non-cancelable employment contracts will substantially increase its employment related risks and limit the Company’s ability to downsize its workforce in the event of an economic downturn. No assurance can be given that the Company will not in the future be subject to labor strikes or that it will not have to make other payments to resolve future labor issues caused by the new laws. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the labor laws will not change further or that their interpretation and implementation will vary, which may have a negative effect upon our business and results of operations. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to foreign exchange control and other regulations of China. Under applicable PRC regulations, foreign-invested enterprises in China may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, a foreign-invested enterprise in China is required to set aside at least 10.0% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. The board of directors of a foreign-invested enterprise has the discretion to allocate a portion of its after-tax profits to staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. Furthermore, the ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balance of the Chinese operating subsidiaries. Because substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and a substantial majority of our revenues are generated in China, a majority of our revenue being earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi (RMB). RMB is subject to the exchange control regulation in China, and, as a result, we may unable to distribute any dividends outside of China due to PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. Our inability to receive dividends or other payments from our Chinese operating subsidiary could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Zhengzhou ZST’s funds may not be readily available to us to satisfy obligations which have been incurred outside the PRC, which could adversely affect our business and prospects or our ability to meet our cash obligations. Accordingly, if we do not receive dividends from our Chinese operating subsidiary, our liquidity, financial condition and ability to make dividend distributions to our stockholders will be materially and adversely affected. The foreign currency exchange rate between U.S. Dollars and Renminbi could adversely affect our financial condition. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. Dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. Dollar at that time. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. Dollars for the operational needs or paying dividends on our common stock, the dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced should the U.S. Dollar appreciate against the Renminbi. Until 1994, the Renminbi experienced a gradual but significant devaluation against most major currencies, including U.S. Dollars, and there was a significant devaluation of the Renminbi on January 1, 1994 in connection with the replacement of the dual exchange rate system with a unified managed floating rate foreign exchange system. Since 1994, the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. Dollar has remained stable and has appreciated slightly against the U.S. Dollar. Countries, including the United States, have argued that the Renminbi is artificially undervalued due to China’s current monetary policies and have pressured China to allow the Renminbi to float freely in world markets. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. Dollar. Under the new policy the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of designated foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar. 27 Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. During the past decade, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as approximately 20% and China has experienced deflation as low as approximately minus 2%. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. In October 2004, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. In April 2006, the People’s Bank of China raised the interest rate again. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products and services. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. As our ultimate holding company is a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt an equity compensation plan for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also know as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We intend to adopt an equity compensation plan in the future and make substantial option grants to our officers and directors, most of who are PRC citizens. Circular 78 may require our officers and directors who receive option grants and are PRC citizens to register with SAFE. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens, including or Chief Executive Officer, to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem in the PRC could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS, Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where our manufacturing facilities are located and where the substantial portion of our sales occur, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our business is dependent upon its ability to continue to manufacture products. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: 28 · quarantines or closures of some of our manufacturing facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, or · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. A downturn in the economy of the PRC may slow our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business, especially if it results in either a decreased use of our products or in pressure on us to lower our prices. Because our business is located in the PRC, we may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls, which we are required to do in order to comply with U.S. securities laws. PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. Most of our middle and top management staff are not educated and trained in the Western system, and we may difficulty hiring new employees in the PRC with such training. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE There is no current trading market for our common stock, and there is no assurance of an established public trading market, which would adversely affect the ability of our investors to sell their securities in the public market. Our common stock is not currently listed or quoted for trading on any national securities exchange or national quotation system. We intend to apply for the listing of our common stock on the NYSE Amex in the future. There is no guarantee that the NYSE Amex, or any other exchange or quotation system, will permit our shares to be listed and traded. If we fail to obtain a listing on the NYSE Amex, we may seek quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. The NASD has enacted changes that limit quotations on the OTC Bulletin Board to securities of issuers that are current in their reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The effect on the OTC Bulletin Board of these rule changes and other proposed changes cannot be determined at this time. The OTC Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ Global Market (the “NASDAQ Global Market”). Quotes for stocks included on the OTC Bulletin Board are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for the NASDAQ Global Market. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTC Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain and holders of common stock may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original offering price or at any price. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of outstanding stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the Share Exchange, we agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register the shares of common stock underlying our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock issued in an equity financing that was conducted in connection with the Share Exchange. The registration statement must be filed within 60 days of the closing of the Share Exchange. We also agreed to register 2,940,000 shares of common stock and 420,000 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants held by our stockholders immediately prior to the Share Exchange. Of these shares, 600,055 shares of common stock and 85,723 shares of common stock underlying warrants would be covered by the registration statement filed in connection with the Private Placement, and 2,339,945 shares of common stock and 334,277 shares of common stock underlying warrants, which are beneficially owned by affiliates of the placement agent would be included in a subsequent registration statement filed by us within 10 days after the end of the six-month period that immediately follows the date on which we file the registration statement to register the shares issued in the Private Placement. Each investor may sell or transfer any shares of the common stock after the effective date of the registration statement except that they entered into a lock-up agreement pursuant to which they agreed not to conduct any sales until 90 days after our common stock is listed or quoted on a national securities exchange, at which time one-twelfth of the shares purchased may be sold, and thereafter the shares will be automatically released from the lock-up restrictions every 30 days in eleven equal installments. In addition, the placement agent, in its discretion, may release some or all the shares earlier than the schedule set forth in this section. Any early release by the placement agent will apply equally to each of the investors in the Private Placement. 29 This Annual Report on Form 10-K is not an offer of securities for sale. Any securities sold in the private placement have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States unless registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or pursuant to an exemption from registration. Additionally, the former stockholders of World Orient and/or their designees, may be eligible to sell all or some of our shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”) as early as January 15, 2010, subject to certain limitations. Under Rule 144, an affiliate stockholder who has satisfied the required holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. As of April 15, 2009, 1% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock was approximately 201,987 shares (assuming the full conversion of the maximum number of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock issued in the Private Placement as of the date of this report). Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate that has satisfied a one-year holding period. Furthermore, non-affiliate stockholders are not subject to volume limitations. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to any resale prospectus or Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock by creating an excessive supply. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board exercises significant influence over us. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Zhong Bo, beneficially owns or controls approximately 61% of our outstanding shares (assuming the full conversion of the maximum number of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock issued in the Private Placement as of the date of this report). Mr. Zhong has a controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, and other significant corporate actions. Mr. Zhong may also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without the consent of Mr. Zhong, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of Mr. Zhong may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any failure of these controls could also prevent us from maintaining accurate accounting records and discovering accounting errors and financial frauds. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by our independent registered public accountants. The SEC extended the compliance dates for non-accelerated filers, as defined by the SEC. Accordingly, the annual assessment of our internal controls requirement first applied to our annual report for the 2007 fiscal year and the attestation requirement of management’s assessment by our independent registered public accountants will first apply to our annual report for the 2009 fiscal year. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent registered public accountants is new and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. In addition, management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. 30 We may not be able to achieve the benefits we expect to result from the Share Exchange. On December 11, 2008, we entered into the Exchange Agreement, as amended on January 9, 2009, with all of the stockholders of World Orient, pursuant to which we agreed to acquire 100% of the issued and outstanding securities of World Orient in exchange for shares of our common stock. On January 9, 2009, the Share Exchange closed, World Orient became our 100%-owned subsidiary and our sole business operations became that of World Orient and its subsidiaries. We also have a new board of directors and management consisting of persons from Zhengzhou ZST and changed our corporate name from SRKP 18, Inc. to ZST Digital Networks, Inc. We may not realize the benefits that we hoped to receive as a result of the Share Exchange, which include: · access to the capital markets of the United States; · the increased market liquidity expected to result from exchanging stock in a private company for securities of a public company that may eventually be traded; · the ability to use registered securities to make acquisition of assets or businesses; · increased visibility in the financial community; · enhanced access to the capital markets; · improved transparency of operations; and · perceived credibility and enhanced corporate image of being a publicly traded company. There can be no assurance that any of the anticipated benefits of the Share Exchange will be realized in respect to our new business operations. In addition, the attention and effort devoted to achieving the benefits of the Share Exchange and attending to the obligations of being a public company, such as reporting requirements and securities regulations, could significantly divert management’s attention from other important issues, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results or stock price in the future. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the public markets and public reporting. Our management team will need to invest significant management time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock,” and thereby be subject to additional sale and trading regulations that may make it more difficult to sell. Our common stock, which is not currently listed or quoted for trading, may be considered to be a “penny stock” if it does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act once, and if, it starts trading. Our common stock may be a “penny stock” if it meets one or more of the following conditions: (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is NOT traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is NOT quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or even if so, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company that has been in business less than three years with net tangible assets less than $5 million. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. 31 We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, our investors’ sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. As a result, investors should not rely on an investment in our securities if they require the investment to produce dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be investors’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, investors may not be able to resell their shares of the Company at or above the price they paid for them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 