Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business Fluctuations in interest rates and interest rate spreads could impact sales, profitability or cash flows of interest-rate sensitive products. Our annuity and universal life insurance products are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Changes in interest rates may make our products less attractive to customers seeking higher yields, which could adversely impact our sales or trigger increased surrenders and withdrawals. For example, when the initial guaranteed interest rate period for fixed annuity products expires, we often have decreased renewal crediting rates. Reductions in interest rates have also reduced the interest spread, or the difference between the returns we earn on the investments that support our obligations and the amounts that we must credit to policyholders and contract holders, which could adversely impact the profitability of those products and therefore our results of operations. We mitigate the risks related to fluctuations in interest rates by employing asset-to-liability matching strategies to help ensure that cash flows are available to pay claims as they become due. However, these strategies may fail to eliminate or reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility. Reductions in expected profitability or increased surrenders and withdrawals may require us to accelerate amortization of associated deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) and deferred sales inducements (DSI) balances, further decreasing our results of operations.Prolonged periods of low interest ratesProlonged periods of low interest rates challenge our ability to sell products that are dependent on interest earnings, such as traditional fixed annuity and universal life products, as consumers look for other higher-yielding investment vehicles to fund their insurance and retirement needs. In the past few years, we've experienced a low interest rate environment and, while rates increased in the second half of 2013 and may continue to do so, we expect them to remain low relative to historical levels for the foreseeable future. If interest rates remain low, it may be difficult to offer attractive rates and benefits to customers while maintaining profitability, which may limit sales growth of interest sensitive products.Sustained low interest rates have subjected us to lower returns on our invested assets, and we have had to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding instruments. This has and may continue to reduce our net investment income and compress the spread on interest-rate sensitive products. Further, borrowers may prepay fixed maturities and commercial mortgage loans in order to borrow at lower market rates. Any related prepayment fees received are recorded in net investment income and create income statement volatility. Proceeds of repayments are reinvested at current market rates, which may reduce future portfolio yields. We have experienced significant prepayment activity over the past few years. This risk is exacerbated by guaranteed minimum crediting rates and indexed annuity caps established by our contracts and/or regulatory authorities, and restrictions on the timing and frequency with which we can adjust our crediting rates and our indexed annuity caps. By comparing the unadjusted interest spreads to the interest spreads adjusted to remove the effect of prepayments, the following table illustrates the volatility investment prepayments have had on our fixed annuity spreads. This table does not quantify the overall impact of investing the proceeds of repayments at current market rates, which reduces future yields. For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011Fixed Annuities: Interest spread (1)2.02% 1.94% 1.94%Base interest spread (2)1.77% 1.83% 1.82%_________________ (1)Interest spread excludes FIA and is the difference between the net investment yield and the credited rate to policyholders. The net investment yield is the approximate yield on invested assets. The credited rate is the approximate rate credited on policyholder fixed account values. Interest credited is subject to contractual terms, including minimum guarantees. (2)Base interest spread excludes FIA and is the interest spread adjusted to exclude items that can vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors and, therefore, may contribute to results that are not indicative of the underlying trends. This is primarily the impact of asset prepayments, such as bond make-whole premiums net of related deferred sales inducement amortization and the MBS prepayment speed adjustment. In addition to our fixed annuities, the performance of our income annuities, universal life and BOLI products are also sensitive to the investment yields on our invested assets backing such products. For example, on our immediate annuities, we are unable to reduce contractually guaranteed payments and a decline in the investment returns on assets supporting this business would reduce our interest spread. In extreme situations, the investment yield earned could be lower than the credited 29rates guaranteed to the customers. We may not be able to successfully manage interest rate spreads or the potential negative impact of those risks.Our term life insurance products also expose us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations. The pricing and expected future profitability of these products are based in part on expected investment returns. Over time, term life insurance products generally produce positive cash flows as customers pay periodic premiums, which we invest as received. Lower than expected interest rates may reduce our ability to achieve our targeted investment margins on these products.We mitigate some of the aforementioned risks by reducing guaranteed minimum crediting rates and caps offered on new business and, for our deferred annuity products, lowering up-front commissions. However, sustained low interest rates may require us to suspend offerings of certain products. Periods of rising interest rates Periods of rising interest rates may cause increased policy surrenders and withdrawals on deferred annuity and BOLI products, as policyholders and contract holders seek investments with higher returns, referred to as disintermediation. This may lead to net cash outflows and could require us to sell investment assets when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. Further, a portion of our investment portfolio consists of commercial mortgage loans and privately placed securities, which are relatively illiquid, thus increasing our liquidity risk in the event of disintermediation. We would also be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and DSI related to surrendered contracts. Some of our products have surrender charges, market value adjustments, and/or delayed payment features that help to mitigate the potential disintermediation impacts. However, a portion of our fixed annuity business has a guaranteed return of purchase payment feature, which may limit the collection of surrender charges if terminated in the early years of the contract. Many contracts also contain provisions allowing contractholders to withdraw a portion of their account value without incurring surrender charges, typically up to 10% annually. During periods of rising interest rates, we may offer higher crediting rates and caps on new sales of interest-sensitive products and increase crediting rates and caps on existing in force products to maintain or enhance product competitiveness. We may not be able to purchase enough higher yielding assets necessary to fund higher crediting rates and caps to maintain our desired spread, which would result in lower profitability. In rising interest rate environments, especially when interest rates are rapidly rising, it may be difficult to position our products to offer attractive rates and benefits to customers while maintaining profitability, which may limit sales growth.Changes in yield curvesShifts in the relationship between short- and long-term interest rates, or yield curve, can also impact our ability to sell our products, particularly fixed annuities. When the yield curve is relatively flat or negatively sloped (i.e., high short-term rates as compared to long-term rates), customers can receive similar crediting rates on competing products, such as certificates of deposit, which have shorter required investment periods. Customers may be more likely to choose those competing products than our annuities, which tend to be longer term in nature.Our investment portfolio is subject to various interest rate, credit and liquidity risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets, reduce investment returns and/or erode capital. The performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon the level of and changes in interest rates and credit spreads, the overall performance of the economy, the creditworthiness of the specific obligors included in our portfolio, equity prices, real estate values, liquidity and other factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors could materially affect our investment results in any period and/or erode capital. As of December 31, 2013, our total investments were $27.90 billion, of which $23.34 billion were fixed maturities. Our fixed maturities portfolio generated net investment income of $1.11 billion and $1.12 billion, and realized losses of $29.0 million and realized gains of $1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.Interest rate and credit spread riskInterest rates and credit spreads are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, general investor sentiment, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates may cause actual net investment income or cash flows to differ from those originally anticipated for investments that carry prepayment and extension risk, such as mortgage-backed and other securities with embedded call options. In periods of declining interest rates, prepayments generally increase. Fixed maturities and commercial mortgage loans in our investment portfolio may be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Government 30programs to support homeowners may also increase prepayments. Such prepayments have and may continue to require us to accelerate amortization of investments purchased at a premium, which decreases our net investment income. Further, we have and may continue to receive prepayment-related fees and penalties, which are recorded as income in the period of prepayment and create income volatility. We received prepayment-related income of $50.0 million and $24.7 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Additionally, we have and may continue to be required to reinvest cash proceeds from prepayments in lower interest-bearing investments, which reduces future portfolio yields. We include an estimate of future principal prepayments in the calculation of effective yields for mortgage-backed securities. Differences between the actual and estimated timing of the principal prepayments impact our investment income and may reduce or increase our overall interest rate spread. As prepayments increase in periods of declining interest rates, premium and discount amortization accelerates because the expected life of the asset is shortened. In periods of rising interest rates, prepayments generally slow, and premium and discount amortization slows because the expected life of the asset is extended. These changes in amortization may adversely affect our investment income. As of December 31, 2013, we held $2.76 billion in residential mortgage-backed securities, including gross unamortized premiums of $46.2 million and gross unamortized discounts of $65.5 million.In addition, net investment income realized by us from future investments in fixed maturities will generally increase or decrease in step with interest rates and credit spreads. In periods of low interest rates, such as we experienced during the last few years, we may be challenged to find attractive yields on new investments. In recent years, we mitigated this risk by increasing our originations of commercial mortgage loans, which generally provide higher yields, but are less liquid than fixed maturities. However, in 2013, we experienced greater competition from traditional bank lenders, conduit lenders and other insurance companies for these new commercial mortgage loans, and we expect this to continue in 2014. Therefore, the supply of loan opportunities meeting our high quality standards could diminish in the future due to increasing competition, as well as potentially reduced loan opportunities if interest rates rise and result in lower opportunistic refinancings. In such a competitive environment, we may not be able to earn sufficient yield on our originations. The fair value of our fixed maturities generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with changes in interest rates and credit spreads. Because our fixed maturities are classified as available-for-sale, changes in the fair value of these securities are reflected as a component of other comprehensive income (OCI). A rise in interest rates causes the fair value of our fixed maturity securities to decline, particularly for our long-duration investments supporting our Income Annuities reserves. Declines in fair value decrease unrealized gains or result in unrealized losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), and decrease our stockholders’ equity. In a rapidly rising interest rate environment, this decrease in stockholders’ equity could be significant and possibly lead to negative stockholders’ equity. Further, GAAP does not require similar fair value accounting treatment for the insurance liabilities that the fixed maturities support. Therefore, changes in the fair value of our fixed maturities caused by interest rate fluctuations are not offset in whole or in part by similar adjustments to the fair value of our insurance liabilities on the balance sheet.We mitigate the risks related to fluctuations in interest rates and credit spreads by employing asset-to-liability matching strategies to help ensure that cash flows are available to pay claims as they become due. However, these strategies may fail to eliminate or reduce the adverse effects of interest rate and credit spread volatility.Credit riskIssuers of the fixed maturities we own and borrowers of our commercial mortgage loans may default on principal and interest payments. Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations could reduce our investment income and cause realized investment losses. Further, fixed maturities are evaluated for impairment based on our assumptions about the creditworthiness of the issuer and our intent and ability hold the security. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we incurred $18.3 million of impairments on fixed maturities, of which $5.6 million, or 30.6%, was related to credit concerns. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we incurred $29.0 million in fixed maturity impairments, of which $12.1 million, or 41.7%, were related to credit concerns. A significant increase in defaults and impairments on our fixed maturity and commercial mortgage loan portfolios could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the pursuit of our business strategies and our ability to grow. The determination of impairments is subject to management’s judgment about the creditworthiness and expected cash flows, and actual cash flows and defaults may vary significantly from our assumptions.As of December 31, 2013, 5.5% of our total fixed maturity portfolio was considered below investment grade. Below investment grade securities generally provide higher expected returns but present greater credit risk and can be less liquid than investment grade securities. For further information, see "Liquidity Risk" below.31Further, an issuer’s inability to refinance or pay off debt could cause certain of our investment-grade maturities to present more significant credit risk than when we first invested. Private equity and highly leveraged buyouts could also cause certain of our investment-grade fixed maturities to present more significant credit risk than when we first invested. For example, such buyouts could cause the credit quality to decrease to below investment grade.Issuers of the fixed maturities that we own may experience performance deterioration or other factors that trigger rating agency downgrades. Although the issuers may not have defaulted on principal and interest payments with respect to these securities, we may be required by regulators and rating agencies to hold more capital in support of these investments. As a result, we could experience higher cost of capital and potential constraints on our ability to grow our business and maintain our own ratings.For further information on our fixed maturities portfolio and credit-related impairments, see Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments.”Liquidity riskOur investments in privately placed fixed maturities, commercial mortgage loans, and limited partnership interests, which collectively represented approximately 16% of total invested assets as of December 31, 2013, are relatively illiquid compared to publicly traded fixed maturities and equities. In addition, periods of market disruption, such as those experienced during the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, could also reduce liquidity for securities generally considered to be readily marketable. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. This risk is mitigated by the liquidity structure of our underlying liabilities, of which 84.4% cannot be surrendered or upon surrender would be subject to significant penalties or adjustments. For further information on the liquidity of our underlying liabilities, see Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.”We may be unsuccessful in our continued efforts to execute on our strategies to diversify sources of income. We have devoted significant effort and financial resources to build new products, distribution and service capabilities to diversify our product portfolio. We also continue to focus our efforts on building our name recognition in the marketplace. As a result of our efforts, in 2013 we experienced success with significant increases in sales of our FIA products and modest but growing sales of our universal life insurance product. We also experienced increases in sales of our variable COLI and group life and DI products, though 2013 sales fell short of our expectations. However, our variable annuity product, launched in 2012, did not gain traction, and as a result, we scaled back our distribution efforts and shifted resources to support other initiatives. We aim to continue implementing our strategies while maintaining current positions of strength in our existing businesses, particularly our medical stop-loss and deferred annuity businesses, as well as maintaining the strength of our balance sheet. Our success will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to achieve customer name recognition, accurately predict market trends, differentiate our product offerings from our competitors’, provide excellent customer service, attract and retain skilled employees, develop new products in a timely manner and achieve market acceptance, effectively implement new technology and operational platforms, deepen our existing distribution relationships and add new distribution partners and set appropriate prices for our products. We may incur higher-than-expected costs or fail to generate expected levels of revenue and profitability associated with this strategy. Further, if we fail to accomplish all or a combination of these strategies, our ability to profitably grow our business could be materially and adversely affected.Our use of derivative financial instruments to manage risk may not be effective or sufficient.We use derivative financial instruments to mitigate various business and investment risks to which we are exposed, including exposures related to our FIA product, foreign currency exposures, and interest rate fluctuations on variable rate fixed maturities and forecasted asset purchases. If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. This failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 2 and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our derivatives and related accounting policies.We may also choose not to hedge, in whole or in part, these or other risks that we have identified. For example, the availability and/or cost of suitable derivative financial instruments or extreme interest rates or equity market conditions may influence our hedging decisions. Additionally, our estimates and assumptions made in connection with our use of any derivative financial instrument may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual exposure in respect to identified risks. Derivative financial instruments held or purchased may also be insufficient to hedge the risks in relation to our obligations. In addition, we may fail to identify risks, or the magnitude thereof, to which we are exposed.32The Dodd-Frank Act includes a new framework of regulation of over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivative transactions that requires parties to such transactions to enter into agreements that provide for, among other things, each party’s right to accelerate, terminate, and close out positions on a “net” basis and liquidate or set off collateral upon an event of default, including bankruptcy or insolvency, of the other party. Such agreements, including the “netting” requirement, must be enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdiction. Our principal life insurance company subsidiary is domiciled in the state of Washington, where current law would permit a receiver for an insolvent insurance company to avoid the “netting” requirement in OTC derivative agreements. Because of this, our primary life insurance company subsidiary faces challenges in entering into derivatives transactions with major financial institutions. This, along with other factors, prompted us to file applications to redomesticate from the state of Washington to the state of Iowa. Iowa has enacted legislation based on the NAIC model legislation that permits enforcement of netting provision in the event of insurer insolvency. If we are not successful in our redomestication effort, we may be unable to place derivative trades at a reasonable cost, or at all. If we are unable to engage in derivative transactions at a reasonable cost, we may not be able to continue to issue certain insurance products, including FIA products, or otherwise effectively manage other risks, such as interest rate or currency risk.In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes additional costs, including new capital, reporting and margin requirements and additional regulation. Increased margin requirements on our part, combined with restrictions on securities that will qualify as eligible collateral, could reduce liquidity and require an increase in our holdings of cash and government securities with lower yields, causing a reduction in income. The derivative clearing requirements of Dodd-Frank will generally increase the cost of our risk mitigation and could potentially expose us to the risk of a default by a clearinghouse with respect to our cleared derivative transactions. The above factors, either alone or in combination, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Efforts to redomesticate our primary insurance company subsidiary may not achieve the intended benefits.We have filed applications to redomesticate (also known as redomicile) our primary life insurance company subsidiary, Symetra Life Insurance Company from the state of Washington to the state of Iowa. We believe that redomestication to Iowa will further our efforts to grow and diversify our product portfolio and risk profile by permitting us to take advantage of the statutes and regulations governing the life insurance industry in Iowa, including Iowa’s legislation that allows the enforcement of derivative netting provisions in the event of insurer insolvency. We also expect the redomestication to Iowa to benefit our competitiveness through enhanced capabilities to offer product features and benefits. Our redomestication efforts will include risks commonly encountered in redomiciles of large insurers, including:•failing to gain approval for our redomestication applications or experiencing unexpected regulatory delays in the redomestication process in Iowa or Washington; •failing to achieve the intended regulatory benefits and strategic goals of the redomestication; and•failing to anticipate new regulatory or financial requirements in Iowa that significantly impact our business or operations.We may be unable to increase or maintain sales through independent sales intermediaries and dedicated sales specialists. We distribute our products through financial intermediaries, independent producers, including BGAs, and dedicated sales specialists. We compete with other financial institutions to attract and retain commercial relationships in each of these channels, and our success in competing for sales through these sales intermediaries depends upon factors such as:•the amount of sales commissions and fees we pay;•the breadth of our product offerings;•the design and positioning of our product offerings;•the amount of adjustments we make in premium or interest crediting rates;•the strength of our brand and consumer name recognition, as well as reputation;•our perceived stability and our financial strength ratings;•the service levels we provide to our distribution partners and customers; and•the strength of the relationships we maintain with individuals at those firms.Through time our relationship with distributors may deteriorate due to any of the above factors, which could result in a drop in sales and/or a loss of existing business due to higher surrender activity.33Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to existing and potential distribution partners to favor their products or to reduce sales of our products. Our contracts with our distribution partners generally allow either party to terminate the relationship upon short notice. Our distribution partners do not make minimum purchase commitments, and our contracts do not prohibit our partners from offering products that compete with ours. Accordingly, our distribution partners may choose not to offer our products exclusively or at all, or may choose to exert insufficient resources and attention to selling our products. In 2013 sales from our top five distribution partners in our Deferred Annuities, Benefits and Individual Life segments represented 52.4%, 34.9% and 59.1%, respectively, of each segment’s total sales. If our relationships with these distributors were to deteriorate, it is likely that we would experience a significant decline in our sales. For further discussion of our sales results and distribution, refer to the discussion for each Division within Item 1 — “Business”Turbulent economic conditions may also impair our distribution partners, which would have an adverse impact on our sales. Further, consolidation of financial institutions could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses, and impair our ability to market our products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base.From time to time, due to competitive forces, we may also experience unusually high employee attrition in particular sales channels for specific products. An inability to recruit productive independent sales intermediaries and dedicated sales specialists, or our inability to retain strong relationships with the individual agents at our independent sales intermediaries, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our future success is highly dependent on maintaining and growing both existing and new distribution relationships. We may have little or no contact or brand awareness with end customers of our products, which makes it more difficult to respond to evolving customer needs and increases our reliance on our distribution partners.Defaults and increasing competition in our commercial mortgage loans may adversely affect our profitability.Our mortgage loans, which are collateralized by commercial properties, are subject to default risk. The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Our underwriting practice analyzes the market value and revenue-generating potential of the property for all new loans. This includes the analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral; personal guarantees of loans; verification of liquid assets and length of amortization periods. We also inspect the underlying property and regularly review key metrics, including analysis of loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios at least annually. For the past several years, we have been strategically increasing our mortgage loan portfolio. Due to increased competition for commercial loans, particularly those over $5.0 million, we increased origination of smaller loans that meet our underwriting criteria. The average size of originated loans decreased to $2.6 million in 2013 from $3.1 million the prior year. We expect the trend in competition and the reduction in our average loan size to continue in 2014. We carry our mortgage loans at outstanding principal balances, adjusted for unamortized deferred fees and costs, net of an allowance for loan losses. Our allowance includes a reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses in the portfolio, and specific reserves for any non-performing loans. If our underwriting practices fail to capture accurate information or prove to be inadequate, we may incur losses, and those losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves. Additionally, deteriorating economic conditions may cause an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments, which would result in realized losses or increases in our allowance for credit losses and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Further, any geographic concentration of our commercial mortgage loans may expose us to higher risk of adverse effects. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a diversified portfolio, events or developments negatively impacting certain geographic regions may have a greater adverse effect on our loan portfolio and, consequently, on our results of operations or financial condition. As of December 31, 2013, 29.4% of our commercial mortgage loans were located in California, primarily in the Los Angeles area, 11.6% were located in Texas and 9.0% were located in Washington.For additional information on our mortgage loan portfolio, see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements and Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Mortgage Loans.”Gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities may become realized or result in future impairments, resulting in a reduction in our net income.Fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value and compose a significant portion of our total assets. Liquidity needs, portfolio rebalancing, or other reasons may require us to sell these securities prior to 34maturity, or credit concerns could prompt us to conclude that a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary. The resulting realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net income.Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of AOCI and are therefore excluded from net income. The accumulated change in the fair value of these available-for-sale securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge is taken. Our gross unrealized losses on available-for-sale fixed maturity and equity securities as of December 31, 2013 were $276.8 million. Gross unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities where the fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or more was $18.4 million as of December 31, 2013.For additional information on our policy for identifying and measuring other-than-temporary impairments, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements and Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.”Our valuation of fixed maturities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.Fixed maturities are reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets and represent approximately 83.6% of our invested assets as of December 31, 2013. The accounting guidance for fair value measurements establishes a three-level hierarchy that gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to valuation models using unobservable inputs (Level 3). Level 2 and Level 3 measurements comprise a significant portion of our invested assets; as of December 31, 2013, approximately $23.16 billion, or 99%, of our fixed maturities were categorized as Level 2 measurements, and $0.18 billion, or 1%, were categorized as Level 3. Because values for securities classified as Level 2 and Level 3 are not based on quoted market prices for identical instruments, the amount we realize may differ significantly from our reported fair value. Additionally, multiple valuation methods may be applicable to a security, and the use of different methodologies and assumptions could materially affect the estimated fair value amounts. Decreases in valuations may result in unrealized losses recorded in stockholders’ equity or realized losses recorded in net income, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our Level 2 measurements are predominantly obtained from third-party independent pricing services and derived from models that use objectively verifiable, observable market inputs, such as benchmark yields, reported trades, broker-dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers and other reference data, including market research publications. Because many fixed maturity securities do not trade on a daily basis, pricing models apply available information through processes such as benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings and matrix pricing. If such information about a security is unavailable, we determine the fair value using internal pricing models that typically utilize significant, unobservable market inputs or inputs that are difficult to corroborate with observable market data.As of December 31, 2013, $653.7 million, or 2.8%, of our fixed maturities portfolio was invested in private placement securities, which are not actively traded. The fair values of $635.6 million, or 97.2%, of these assets are classified as Level 2, as they are determined using a discounted cash flow approach that uses significant inputs that are market-observable.During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial environment. In such cases, valuations for those securities may require more subjectivity and management judgment, including valuation methods, inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Rapidly changing and adverse credit and equity market conditions could also materially impact the valuation of securities reported in our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.To mitigate these risks, we use established, industry-standard valuation models consistently from period-to-period. Additionally, our investment management objective is to support the expected cash flows of our liabilities and to produce stable returns over the long term; thus, we typically hold our fixed maturities until maturity or until market conditions are favorable for the sale of such investments.For more information on our valuation methodology for invested assets, see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Assets at Fair Value.”35Downturns and volatility in equity markets could adversely affect our profitability or financial condition.We recognize changes in fair value of our mark-to-market investments, including certain common stock, in net income through net realized investment gains (losses). These investments, which generally provide higher expected total returns over the long term, present a greater risk to preservation of principal than our fixed maturity investments. As of December 31, 2013, less than three percent of our invested assets were invested in securities whose changes in fair value are typically highly correlated with changes in the equity markets. While these investments do not represent a significant portion of our invested assets, a decline in the equity markets could have a significant adverse effect on our net income, and also increase volatility in results between periods. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2013, net gains on our equity securities trading portfolio were $66.0 million, while in the year ending December 31, 2012, net gains on our equity securities trading portfolio were $36.7 million. Beginning in the third quarter 2013, we began classifying certain purchases of equity securities as available-for-sale securities, with changes in fair value recorded in OCI, which will help reduce the impact of equity market fluctuations on our net income. We may face unanticipated losses if we determine our reserves are inadequate, or there are significant deviations from our pricing assumptions.We calculate and maintain reserves for estimated future benefit payments to our policyholders and contract holders in accordance with GAAP, which are released as those future obligations are extinguished. The reserves we establish are estimates, primarily based on actuarial assumptions with regard to our future experience, which involve the exercise of significant judgment. Our future financial results depend upon the extent to which our actual future experience is consistent with the assumptions we have used in pricing our products and determining our reserves. Many factors can affect future experience, including persistency, future investment returns or interest rates, mortality and morbidity, and healthcare costs, as well as economic, political and social conditions, inflation, and changes in doctrines of legal liability. Therefore, we cannot precisely predict the ultimate amounts we will pay for actual future benefits or the timing of those payments.Persistency refers to the proportion of policies or contracts that will remain in force from one period to the next. For most of our products, actual persistency that is lower than our assumptions would have an adverse impact on profitability, especially in the early years of a policy or contract primarily because we would be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition expenses related to the policy or contract. In addition, we may need to sell investments at a loss to fund withdrawals. For some of our policies, including certain life insurance and life-contingent SPIA and structured settlement contracts, actual persistency in later policy durations that is higher than our persistency assumptions could have a negative impact on profitability. If these policies remain in force longer than we assumed, then we could be required to make greater benefit payments than we had anticipated when we priced these products.We face persistency risk with regard to a significant amount of fixed deferred annuity contract value that will no longer be subject to surrender charges in 2015 and beyond. When they are no longer subject to surrender charges, these annuity contract holders may withdraw their funds to seek higher returns elsewhere. In addition, we may offer higher renewal interest rates than assumed to retain these contract holders. We monitor the persistency of our annuity business and evaluate our retention strategies but our efforts may not be successful and the persistency of this block may not be in line with our assumptions. In such an event, we may face higher than expected contract holder withdrawals of funds, which may adversely affect our results.Reserves related to certain products, primarily in our Income Annuities and Individual Life segments, include assumptions about future investment returns. For longer-duration income annuities, these assumptions reflect our best estimates of interest rates projected more than 30 years into the future. Reserves for our UL product with secondary guarantees reflect assumptions about returns on assets purchased with future premiums. If we determine that these future investment returns will be lower than our expectations, we may be required to increase our reserves in the period that we make the determination, which could adversely affect our results. In addition, we set prices for our insurance and certain annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for, among other factors, morbidity rates and mortality rates of our policyholders and contract holders. The long-term profitability of these products depends upon how our actual experience compares with our pricing assumptions. For example, if morbidity rates are higher or mortality rates vary from our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make greater payments than we had projected. Our largest exposure to mortality risk is in our Individual Life segment. Additionally, mortality also affects results in our Income Annuities segment, as we may pay more or fewer benefits than expected. Mortality experience is volatile and can fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our largest exposure to morbidity risk is in our medical stop-loss product. We attempt to mitigate our exposure to mortality and morbidity risk through the use of reinsurance. 36Our medical stop-loss product exposes us to the risk of increases in healthcare costs. Such costs have risen substantially in recent history and may continue to do so. Our product reimburses claim amounts above certain thresholds, and an increase in medical costs may result in higher claims. Our policies are typically one-year contracts and are underwritten and repriced annually. We monitor claims costs, medical inflation, changing demographics, changes in our mix of business, and other factors that may affect future costs. However, claim frequency or severity may exceed our expectations or may not be properly factored into our pricing. For example, higher claims frequency on business renewed in early 2013 resulted in a higher than expected loss ratio and reduced earnings in our Benefits segment. We regularly monitor our reserves and review our assumptions. If we conclude that our reserves are insufficient to cover actual or expected policy and contract benefits and claims payments, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges in the period in which we make that determination, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There were no significant adjustments to GAAP reserves due to inadequacy during 2013, 2012 or 2011.Although certain of our products permit us to increase premiums or reduce benefits or crediting rates during the life of the policy or contract, these changes may not be sufficient to maintain profitability, or may reduce the attractiveness of our products relative to competitors. Moreover, many of our products either do not permit us to increase premiums or reduce benefits or may limit those changes during the life of the policy or contract. Therefore, significant deviations in experience from our assumptions regarding persistency, mortality and morbidity rates could have an adverse effect on our profitability.The amount of statutory capital that we have and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold to meet rating agency, regulatory and other requirements can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors, including equity market and credit market conditions and changes in rating agency models. We conduct the vast majority of our business through our insurance company subsidiaries. Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC has established regulations that provide minimum capitalization requirements based on risk-based capital (“RBC”) formulas for our insurance company subsidiaries. Further, a state department of insurance could impose higher than minimum capital requirements. In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios for our insurance company subsidiaries may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors. These include the amount of statutory income or losses generated, dividends paid to the parent company, the amount of additional capital that must be held to support business growth or changes in business mix, changes in equity market levels, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, changes in interest rates, changes in credit quality ratings for the bonds in our investment portfolios, and changes to the RBC formulas, including proposed changes to the interest rate scenarios. Our financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital they believe we should hold. Our derivative counterparty agreements may impose minimum RBC ratios in order for the agreements to remain active for new and existing trades. Further, in scenarios of extended periods of low interest rates, such as those experienced recently, the amount of statutory reserves that we are required to hold may increase, which reduces our statutory surplus. Annually we are required to assess statutory reserve adequacy and for the year ended December 31, 2013, an additional statutory reserve of $32.0 million was established, which reduced our statutory surplus by approximately $20.8 million, net of tax. As of December 31, 2013, the total of these additional reserves were $57.0 million. For further information on this statutory reserve, see Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.”Our statutory financial statements are subject to the Statements of Statutory Accounting Principles (SSAPs), which is promulgated by the NAIC. In addition, the NAIC, through its Life and Health Actuarial Task Force, issues interpretations or guidelines (Actuarial Guidelines) of state statutes related to reserves and other actuarial topics. These guidelines are used to apply a statute to a particular circumstance. These SSAPs and Actuarial Guidelines impact our statutory surplus and therefore impact the amount of capital we are required to maintain. For example, the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Regulation, as clarified by Actuarial Guideline 38 (more commonly known as “Regulation XXX and AXXX”) requires insurers to establish additional or redundant statutory reserves for certain universal life and term insurance policies with secondary guarantees. As of December 31, 2013, we had $52.8 million of AXXX deficiency reserves and $9.6 million of XXX deficiency reserves. We expect to implement a strategy to manage reserve redundancies in the future as we expect sales of these types of products to continue to increase. However, we cannot provide assurance that there will not be regulatory, tax or other challenges to the 37actions we have taken or will take in the future. The result of this or other potential changes or related challenges could require us to increase statutory reserves or incur higher operating and/or tax costs.We may face unanticipated losses if we are required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and/or deferred sales inducements if there are significant deviations in actual experience or in anticipated assumptions. Deferred policy acquisition costs represent certain costs that vary with and are directly related to the successful acquisition and renewal of our products. Such costs are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the related contracts. Deferred sales inducements represent bonus interest and excess interest, mainly on our fixed annuity products, which are deferred and reported in receivables and other assets on our consolidated balance sheets. These amounts are amortized as interest credited over the estimated life of the related contracts. As of December 31, 2013, we had $419.9 million of DAC and $154.8 million of DSI, excluding the adjustment for unrealized gains (losses) on investments.Our amortization of DAC and DSI generally depends upon anticipated profits for the related contracts. These estimates include assumptions based on investment returns, crediting rates, persistency, surrender and other policy and contract charges, mortality, morbidity, and maintenance and expense margins. Our assumptions are adjusted quarterly to reflect actual experience to date. For future assumptions, we conduct a study to refine our estimates of future gross profits on an annual basis during the third quarter, or additionally throughout the year as needed. Upon completion of this study, we revise our assumptions and update our DAC models to reflect our current best estimate. Changes in our actual experience or our expected future experience may result in increased amortization of DAC or DSI, which would increase our expenses and reduce profitability.For example, for the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded additional amortization of DAC and DSI totaling $8.3 million and $6.8 million, respectively, related to prepayment-related income. These adjustments included the impact of both current period amortization and changes to future assumptions as a result of significant prepayment-related investment income, which was primarily due to make-whole fees on fixed maturities that were prepaid during the low-interest rate environment. We regularly review our DAC and DSI asset balances to determine if it is recoverable from future income. The portion of the DAC and DSI asset balances deemed to be unrecoverable, if any, is charged to expense in the period in which we make this determination. For example, if we determine that we are unable to recover DAC or DSI from profits over the life of a block of insurance policies or annuity contracts, we would be required to recognize the unrecoverable DAC or DSI amortization as a current-period expense. We did not record any such expenses during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. For further information on our DAC accounting policy, see Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs.”We may engage in strategic acquisitions or other related transactions which present risks that could adversely affect our business.We have sought and may continue to seek profitable growth through acquisitions opportunities. Any acquisitions or investments will include risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses, including:•failing to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired business;•failing to successfully integrate the acquired business into our operations;•paying more than fair market value for an acquired company or assets;•experiencing an unanticipated downgrade in our financial strength ratings;•disrupting our ongoing businesses;•distracting management focus from our ongoing businesses;•acquiring unanticipated liabilities;•failing to retain key personnel;•incurring the expense of an impairment of assets due to the failure to realize expected benefits;•damaging relationships with employees, customers or strategic partners; •failing to obtain or experiencing significant delays in obtaining regulatory approval; and•diluting the share value of existing stockholders.38Additionally, in connection with any acquisition that involves reinsurance, we will assume or otherwise become responsible for the obligations of policies and other liabilities of other insurers. Any regulatory, legal, financial, or other adverse development affecting these other insurers could also have an adverse effect on us.The exploration of acquisition opportunities requires a significant investment of time from our senior leadership team, and may require significant legal, consulting, financial and accounting expenses for due diligence. We may not complete acquisitions that we explore, or incur higher than expected costs to complete an acquisition. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which is periodically revised by recognized authorities, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). For example, on January 1, 2012, we adopted a revised standard for DAC, which limited the costs that are eligible for deferral. This standard resulted in more acquisition costs being expensed as incurred, partially offset by a decrease in related amortization expense. New standards are currently being developed for insurance contract accounting, which would measure liabilities for insurance contracts based on the present value of estimated future cash flows to fulfill the contract. This would change the recognition and measurement of insurance obligations on our statement of financial position and impact the timing of the related income in our results of operations. The FASB is also drafting new standards for financial instruments which, as currently proposed, would change the way assets and liabilities classified as financial instruments are recognized and measured, and how credit losses on these assets are recorded. If adopted in their current form, these accounting standards would change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements. Such changes could have an adverse effect on our reported financial condition and results of operations, and would significantly change the way results are presented in our consolidated financial statements.A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength ratings could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Financial strength ratings, which various ratings organizations publish as measures of an insurance company’s ability to meet contract holder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our company and our products, and the ability to market our products and our competitive position. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings, or the announced potential for a downgrade, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in several ways, including:•reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products;•increasing our cost of capital;•adversely affecting our relationships with distribution partners;•materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contract holders and policyholders;•requiring us to reduce prices or increase crediting rates for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and•adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance or obtain reasonable pricing on reinsurance.In addition, maintaining our ratings may require us to retain higher levels of capital and limit our ability to execute capital actions. For further discussion of our current ratings, see Item 1 — “Business — Financial Strength Ratings.”Reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses, and failure to perform by the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements may expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our business segments, primarily in the Benefits and Individual Life divisions. For discussion of our reinsurance program, refer to Item 1 — “Business — Reinsurance.”While reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at specified pricing, market conditions can determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance, may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms 39or may not be able to obtain reinsurance coverage, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business, offer new products or enter new markets, or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. Further, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. The total reinsurance recoverables due from reinsurers was $310.8 million as of December 31, 2013, of which $121.1 million was recoverable from our single largest reinsurer. Our reinsurers may be unable or unwilling to pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us now or in the future or on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency, or inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Intense competition could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability. Our businesses are subject to intense competition from companies that offer similar products and use similar distribution channels. This includes competition from other major insurers, banks, other financial institutions, mutual funds, private equity and asset management firms and specialty providers. The substantial expansion of banks’ and insurance companies’ distribution capacity and expansion of product features in recent years have intensified pressure on margins and production levels and have increased the level of competition, which could make it difficult to achieve our target returns. We also face competition from companies that have greater market share or breadth of distribution, stronger brand awareness, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength ratings than we do. For example, our group medical stop-loss products are underwritten annually. There is a risk that our customers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could renewing coverage with us. We have recently seen heightened competition with aggressive pricing in this marketplace, which reduced our 2013 sales. These competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. For further discussion of factors affecting our competitive environment, refer to Item 1 — “Business — Competition.”Our strategies for mitigating risks arising from our day-to-day operations may prove ineffective resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions.Our performance is highly dependent on our ability to manage risks that arise from a large number of our day-to-day business activities, including setting of premium or interest crediting rates, underwriting, claims processing, policy administration and servicing, management of our computer systems, particularly legacy computer systems, execution of our investment and hedging strategies, financial and tax reporting, marketing and sales efforts, maintaining adequate staffing dedicated to certain functions, our ability to prevent and detect fraud, and other activities, many of which are complex. We also may rely on third parties for such activities. We seek to monitor and control our exposure to risks arising out of or related to these activities through a variety of internal controls, management review processes, and other mechanisms. However, the occurrence of unforeseen risks or risks of a greater magnitude than expected, including those arising from a failure in processes, procedures or systems implemented by us or a failure on the part of employees or third parties upon which we rely in this regard, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of catastrophic events, such as natural disasters, disease pandemics, terrorism or military actions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial condition and results of operations are at risk of material adverse effects that could arise from catastrophic mortality and morbidity due to natural disasters, including floods, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, disease pandemics, terrorism and military actions. For example, such events could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates, as policyholders and contract holders who are affected by the disaster may need to withdraw funds or be unable to meet their contractual obligations, such as payment of premiums on our insurance policies or deposits into our investment products. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, and a natural disaster or a disease pandemic could trigger an economic downturn in the areas directly or indirectly affected by the disaster. These could adversely impact the valuation and performance of our investment portfolio. In addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio or holdings in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, or could harm the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoverables. Further, for products sold through our Benefits and Individual Life Divisions, a localized event that affects our customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. The effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and nongovernmental 40organizations, in combating the spread and severity of a disease pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us.The majority of our operations are located in Bellevue, Washington, although we have other offices throughout the U.S. We maintain a business continuity plan for our operations, but we cannot predict with certainty whether our plan will be successfully implemented in the event of an actual catastrophic event or disaster or predict with certainty when normal business operations would resume if such an event occurs. In the event of a catastrophic event or disaster, our employees may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time, and/or we may have limited or no connectivity, which may interrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The majority of our employees are equipped to work remotely; however certain duties, such as processing new business applications, may be difficult to perform remotely.In addition, we also outsource a significant portion of our information technology infrastructure to a third party. This third party is required to maintain and test disaster recovery and business continuity plans for its operations. At least annually, we participate in a test of its disaster recovery plans. However, we cannot predict with certainty whether its plans will be successfully implemented in the event of an actual catastrophic event or disaster or predict with certainty when normal business operations would resume if such an event occurs to the third party. As a result, in the event of a catastrophic event or disaster affecting that third party, we may be unable to perform our duties for an extended period of time, and/or we may have limited or no connectivity, which may interrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems and to safeguard the security of our data could adversely affect our business. We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and analyze customer and company data and information. Additionally, our computer and information technology systems interface with and rely upon third-party vendors. Our business is highly dependent on our ability, and the ability of third parties, to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, including providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, administering annuity products, providing customer support, filing and paying claims and making changes to existing policies. We also use systems for investment management, financial reporting and data analysis to support our policyholder reserves and other actuarial estimates.Systems supporting our Retirement and Individual Life Divisions mainly consist of legacy systems. We have committed and will continue to commit resources to develop, maintain and enhance our existing information systems and develop new information systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. Our ability to keep many of our systems fully integrated with those of our distribution partners is critical to the operation of our business.Moreover, our computer systems have been, and will continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks, hackers or other computer-related penetrations. To date, we are not aware of a material breach of cybersecurity. We commit significant resources to administrative and technical controls to prevent cyber incidents and protect our information technology, but our preventative actions to reduce the risk of cyber threats may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, denial of service and other cyber-attacks or security breaches. Such an event could compromise our confidential information as well as that of our clients and third parties with whom we interact, impede or interrupt business operations and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, additional regulatory scrutiny and litigation and reputational damage. See "Risks Related to Our Industry — The failure to protect our clients' confidential information and privacy could adversely affect our business." We maintain cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems.System outages or outright failures would compromise our ability to perform critical functions in a timely manner. This could hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers and harm our ability to conduct business. In the event of a disaster such as a blackout, an industrial accident, a natural catastrophe, a terrorist attack or war, our systems may not be available to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. If our systems or our data are destroyed or disabled, employees may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we do not maintain adequate systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including:•inadequate information on which to base pricing, underwriting and reserving decisions;•inadequate information for accurate financial reporting;41•increases in administrative expenses;•the loss of existing customers or key distributors;•difficulty in attracting new customers or distributors;•customer, provider and agent disputes;•litigation exposure; or•regulatory compliance problems, such as failure to meet prompt payment obligations.The failure to protect our clients’ confidential information and privacy could adversely affect our business. A number of our businesses are subject to privacy regulations and confidentiality obligations. For example, the collection and use of patient data in our Benefits division is the subject of national and state legislation, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and certain of the activities conducted by our businesses are subject to the privacy regulations of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and state privacy laws and regulations. We also have contractual obligations to protect certain confidential information we obtain from our existing vendors and clients. These obligations generally include protecting such confidential information in the same manner and to the same extent as we protect our own confidential information. We seek to maintain a comprehensive written information security program with appropriate administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect such confidential information. The actions we have taken vary by business segment and may include, among other things:•training and educating our employees regarding our obligations relating to confidential information;•monitoring changes in state or federal privacy and compliance requirements;•drafting appropriate contractual provisions into any contract that raises proprietary and confidentiality issues;•maintaining secure storage facilities for tangible records;•securing access to electronic information; and•in the event of a security breach, providing credit monitoring or other services to affected customers.If we do not properly comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information, we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory sanctions, such as penalties, fines and loss of license, as well as loss of reputation and possible litigation. This could have an adverse impact on our company’s image and, therefore, result in loss of distribution partners, lower sales or lapses of existing business.Our business could be interrupted or compromised if we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships. We outsource significant technology and business functions to third parties, including a substantial portion of our investment management and information technology functions, and expect to continue to do so in the future. When we engage a third-party vendor, we perform due diligence on the vendor, including evaluations of quality of service, financial stability, compliance with laws and regulations and appropriate business continuity plans. However, if our due diligence is not sufficient, we do not maintain an effective outsourcing strategy or third-party providers do not perform as contracted, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs of service, significant costs to transition providers, and a loss of business and reputation that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. Further our third-party service providers are required to maintain and routinely test business continuity plans. However, catastrophic events interrupting their business operations may disrupt their provision of critical services to us for an extended period of time, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Our credit facility subjects us to operating and financial covenants on our operations and could limit our ability to grow our business.We have a $300.0 million revolving credit facility. This credit facility also provides access to up to an additional $100.0 million of financing, subject to the availability of additional commitments. We rely on the facility as a potential source of liquidity, which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. As of December 31, 2013, we had no balance outstanding and we have had no borrowings under this facility. In connection with this facility, we have agreed to covenants that may impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness by our subsidiaries, 42limit the ability of us and our subsidiaries to create liens and impose certain other operating limitations. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing or take advantage of business opportunities.Furthermore, our credit facility requires us and our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If we are unable to comply with the covenants and ratios in our credit facility, we may be deemed in default under the facility and unable to access it when needed, or we may be required to pay substantial fees or penalties to the lenders to obtain a waiver of any such default. Either development could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Raising additional capital could dilute stockholder ownership in the Company and may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We need liquidity to pay our policyholder benefits, operating expenses, interest on our debt, and to pay down or replace certain debt obligations as they mature. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to:•fund liquidity needs;•refinance our senior notes or our Capital Efficient Notes (CENts);•acquire new businesses or invest in existing businesses;•grow our business;•otherwise respond to competitive pressures;•maintain adequate risk-based capital; or•maintain our target ratings from rating agencies.Future deterioration of our capital position at a time when we are unable to access the long-term debt market could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, which may require us to:•reduce or eliminate future stockholder dividends of our common stock;•utilize unused borrowings for general corporate purposes;•undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions;•limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products;•undertake asset sales or internal asset transfers; and•seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules.Certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or the approval of counterparties, which are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them. Actions we might take to access financing may also cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. Further, in connection with the CENts offering, we entered into a covenant that may limit our ability to undertake certain additional types of financing to repay or redeem the CENts.Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity may dilute each stockholder’s ownership percentage in our company and may decrease the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, newly issued securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common stock. Any additional financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us.Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business could suffer. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets may limit our access to capital required to operate our business and maintain desired financial ratios. These market conditions may limit our ability to access the capital necessary to grow our business, replace capital withdrawn by customers or raise new capital required by our subsidiaries as a result of volatility in the markets in a timely manner. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility.43As a holding company, Symetra Financial Corporation depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends or engage in stock repurchases. Symetra is a holding company for its insurance company and financial subsidiaries with no significant operations of its own. Its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay dividends consist of dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments under tax sharing agreements with its subsidiaries. In addition, the ability to execute common stock repurchases may be dependent on dividends from Symetra’s subsidiaries. The timing and amount of any stock repurchases will be determined by management, based on market conditions, regulatory considerations and other factors. For further discussion of our stock repurchase program, refer to Item 5 — “Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.”State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance company subsidiaries. Based on our statutory results as of December 31, 2013, our primary insurance company subsidiary may pay Symetra dividends of up to $187.0 million in the aggregate during 2014 without obtaining regulatory approval from its state of domicile, Washington. Competitive pressures generally require our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain financial strength ratings, which are partly based on maintaining certain levels of capital. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements, such as minimum required risk-based capital ratios, affect the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Limits on the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to stockholders, repurchase common stock and service our debt. More information about the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends can be found in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.The investment strategies, plans, and expectations of our principal stockholders may impact our business or the market price of our common stock. Our principal stockholders, affiliates of White Mountains Insurance Group, Ltd. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc., each beneficially owned approximately 17% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of February 18, 2014. Accordingly, they may have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the nomination and election of directors and the determination of the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, such as amendments to our certificate of incorporation, potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of our principal stockholders may not coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. Furthermore, future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by our principal shareholders could have a material adverse effect on the prevailing market price of our common stock and on our business. Our principal stockholders have the right, subject to certain conditions, to sell their shares subject to compliance with the requirements and limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933 or to require us to register the sale of their shares of our common stock. Risks Related to Our IndustryOur industry is highly regulated and changes in regulations affecting our businesses may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. Our insurance businesses are heavily regulated and are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in various jurisdictions. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to state insurance laws and regulated by the insurance departments of the various states in which they are domiciled and licensed to sell products and services. State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to various aspects of our insurance businesses, including:•licensing companies and agents to transact business;•calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;•mandating certain insurance benefits;•regulating certain premium rates;•reviewing and approving policy forms;•regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;•establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards, including guidelines on the use of captive reinsurance entities;44•establishing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts;•designating authorized reinsurers;•requiring regular market conduct examinations;•conducting unannounced and targeted market conduct examinations;•approving changes in control of insurance companies;•restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and•regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have an adverse effect on our business.Currently, the U.S. federal government does not regulate directly the business of insurance. However, the Dodd-Frank Act created a Federal Insurance Office. While the office will not directly regulate domestic insurance business, it is tasked with studying the potential efficiency and consequences of federal insurance regulation. We cannot predict what impact, if any, the results of these studies or other such proposals, if enacted, may have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, federal legislation and administrative policies in other areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including general financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy regulation, tort reform legislation, and taxation.The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which impacts our medical stop-loss and limited benefit medical businesses began to be implemented at the state and federal levels. While it remains unclear at this time how our medical stop-loss business will be impacted, we believe that PPACA is attracting new market participants offering medical stop-loss insurance as employers look to self-fund their medical expenses. This increasing competition will likely lead to increased price competition and market innovation for medical stop-loss business. Further, our limited benefit medical product has been repositioned as supplemental coverage, but we cannot predict whether such repositioning will be successful. We will continue to monitor the implementation of PPACA and reassess our business strategies accordingly.Many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or to distribute our products.Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and labor-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance efforts and other expenses of doing business. For example, in 2012, the NAIC adopted the Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (“ORSA”) Model Act, which requires insurers to maintain a framework for identifying, assessing, monitoring, managing and reporting on the “material and relevant risks” associated with the insurer’s current business plans. ORSA, which provides for an effective date of January 1, 2015, is part of the NAIC’s overall Solvency Modernization Initiative (“SMI”). As a Model Act, ORSA must be adopted by our domiciliary state to be effective for our insurance company subsidiaries. We are working to integrate the requirements of ORSA into our existing risk management framework.U.S. federal and state securities laws apply to investment products that are also securities, including variable annuities and variable life insurance policies. As a result, some of our subsidiaries and the policies and contracts they offer are subject to regulation under these federal and state securities laws. Some of our insurance company subsidiaries’ separate accounts are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940. One subsidiary is registered as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is a member of, and subject to regulation by FINRA.Securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and regulations grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with those laws and regulations.45Legal and regulatory investigations and actions are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and harm our reputation. We face risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. We may become subject to class actions and regulatory actions and we are or may become subject to individual lawsuits relating, among other things, to sales or underwriting practices, payment of contingent or other sales commissions, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, interest crediting practices, denial or delay of benefits, breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers, and investment activities. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, which may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Such litigation or regulatory investigations may relate to the following:•Annuity sales to seniors continue to be scrutinized by FINRA and state insurance regulators, and have been the source of industry litigation in situations where annuity sales have allegedly been unsuitable for the seniors’ financial needs.•Funding services have been viewed unfavorably in the past by consumer advocates and the media and have the potential to be misunderstood by regulators and courts. This is particularly the case where we offer funding services to payees of our own structured settlement annuities.•We are subject to market conduct examinations related to unclaimed property by state insurance regulators and audits of escheatment practices by state revenue authorities, related to the following:◦State insurance regulators have been scrutinizing claims settlement practices of life insurance companies with regard to payment of death benefits. Through their authority to regulate market conduct, including claims settlement practices, state insurance regulators have been examining the use by life insurance companies of the U.S. Social Security Administration’s Death Master File (SSADMF) to identify deceased persons and the processes by which life insurance companies search for beneficiaries of life and annuity contracts. In particular, these regulators have been looking at how life insurance companies handle unreported deaths, maturity of life insurance and annuity contracts, and contracts that have exceeded limiting age to determine if the companies are appropriately identifying when death benefits or other payments under the contracts should be made. Several states have enacted new laws or adopted new regulations mandating the use by life insurance companies of the SSADMF or other similar data bases to identify deceased persons and more rigorous processes to find beneficiaries. Symetra’s life insurance company subsidiaries are currently being examined by the California Department of Insurance on behalf of itself and several other states with regard to the companies’ claims settlement practices.◦State insurance regulators also have been scrutinizing claims settlement practices of life insurance companies with regard to unclaimed life insurance and annuity death benefits, including escheatment practices. Through their authority to regulate market conduct, including unclaimed property practices, state insurance regulators have been examining the escheatment practices of life insurance companies and sanctioned several for failure to escheat death benefits or other contract benefits to state revenue authorities when beneficiaries could not be found at the expiration of statutory dormancy periods. Sanctions have included fines and agreements by insurance companies to improve their escheatment practices. Symetra’s life insurance company subsidiaries are currently being examined by the California Insurance Department on behalf of itself and several other states with regard to their unclaimed property and escheatment practices.◦State treasurers, controllers and revenue departments have also been scrutinizing escheatment practices of life insurance companies with regard to unclaimed life insurance and annuity death benefits. As with state insurance regulators, state revenue authorities have been looking at how life insurance companies handle unreported deaths, maturity of life insurance and annuity contracts, and contracts that have exceeded limiting age to determine if the companies are appropriately determining when death benefits or other payments under the contracts should be treated as unclaimed property. State treasurers, controllers and revenue departments have audited life insurance companies, required escheatments and imposed interest penalties on amounts escheated for failure to escheat death benefits or other contract benefits when beneficiaries could not be found at the expiration of statutory dormancy periods. Symetra’s life insurance company subsidiaries are currently being audited by a private contractor to determine whether unclaimed life insurance and annuity death benefits should be escheated to the states in which deceased owners resided. The Company entered into a Global Resolution Agreement in 2013, which sets forth the operational procedures for the conduct of the audit and caps the interest we would pay for failure to timely 46escheat unclaimed life insurance and annuity death benefits or other payments under our insurance contracts.It is possible that other examinations, audits and related activity and/or new state laws or regulations could result in additional payments to beneficiaries, additional escheatment of funds deemed abandoned under state laws, interest penalties, and changes to the Symetra life insurance company subsidiaries’ procedures. Given the legal and regulatory uncertainty in this area, it is also possible that life insurers, including Symetra’s life insurance company subsidiaries, may be subject to claims, regulatory actions, law enforcement actions and civil litigation concerning their business practices. Any resulting additional payments or costs would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.•We are also subject to various other regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas, market conduct exams and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities, which may result in fines, recommendations for corrective action or other regulatory actions.Current or future investigations and proceedings could have an adverse effect on our business. A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could incur significant expenses or suffer reputational harm, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions or precedents and industry-wide regulations or practices that could adversely affect our business.Potential changes in tax laws could adversely affect our profitability and make some of our products less attractive to customers.Changes to the Internal Revenue Code, administrative rulings, or court decisions could make our products less desirable, increase our effective tax rate, and lower our earnings. Congress has previously considered and may revisit legislation that could make our products less attractive to customers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefits derived from the tax exempt or deferred nature of life insurance and annuity products. Due in large part to the ongoing budget crisis affecting many governments, there is an increasing risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would result in higher taxes on insurance companies and their policyholders. Although the specific form of any such potential legislation is uncertain, it could include reducing or eliminating some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us or our policyholders. Changes to these favorable tax statuses could adversely affect our sales and lapses of current policies.Our future effective tax rate may also be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in available tax credits or deductions and changes in current tax laws or interpretations of such laws. For example, changes in the availability or administration of benefits related to tax credit investments or modifications to the dividends-received deduction for life insurance company separate accounts could adversely affect our profitability or future sales. Additionally, if we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income, we may be unable to realize our expected rate of return on our tax credit investments or otherwise execute on our tax planning strategies. Failures elsewhere in the insurance industry could obligate us to pay assessments through guaranty associations. When an insurance company becomes insolvent, state insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess other insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to pay obligations to policyholders of the insolvent company, up to the state-specific limit of coverage. The total amount of the assessment is typically based on the number of insured residents in each state, and each company’s portion is based on its proportionate share of premium volume in the relevant lines of business. The future failure of a large life, health or annuity insurer could trigger assessments which we would be obligated to pay. Further, amounts for historical insolvencies may be assessed over many years, and there can be significant uncertainty around the total obligation for a given insolvency. In addition, certain states allow us to offset future assessments with premium tax offsets which are estimated and recorded as a corresponding asset. Our liability may not be sufficient to fund the ultimate obligations of a historical insolvency, and we may be required to increase our liability, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, future premium tax offsets may not be realized and we may be required to decrease our asset, which could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We may be subject to infringement claims.We may be subject to claims by third parties, including our competitors, for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement; (ii) breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. For example, certain of our 47competitors have been granted business process patents for insurance product design features. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.