Risk Factors.” Significant stockholders may be able to influence the direction of our business. Our principal stockholders, affiliates of White Mountains Insurance Group, Ltd. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc., each beneficially owned approximately 21.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 1, 2010 (includes warrants exercisable for 9,487,872 shares held by affiliates of each of White Mountains Insurance Group, Ltd. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.). On matters that are brought to stockholders 39 Table of Contents for their vote, they have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the nomination and election of directors and the determination of the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation, potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of our principal stockholders may not coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. Our internal control over financial reporting does not currently meet the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We recently completed the initial public offering of our common stock. As a privately held company, we were not required to maintain internal control over financial reporting in a manner that meets the standards of publicly traded companies required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, standards that we are required to meet in the course of preparing our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010. Although we have documentation of our internal controls, we do not fully test our compliance with these controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In connection with our 2009, 2008 and 2007 audits, no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting were identified. If, as a newly public company, we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting in future periods. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules and may breach the covenants under our revolving credit facilities and our senior notes. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm report a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we will incur incremental costs in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404, including increased auditing and legal fees and costs associated with hiring additional accounting and administrative staff. Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is highly regulated and changes in regulations affecting our businesses may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. Our insurance businesses are heavily regulated and are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in various jurisdictions. State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our insurance businesses and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the various states in which they are domiciled and licensed. State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to various aspects of our insurance businesses, including: • licensing companies and agents to transact business; • calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; • mandating certain insurance benefits; • regulating certain premium rates; • reviewing and approving policy forms; 40 Table of Contents • regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; • establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; • fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; • requiring regular market conduct examinations; • approving changes in control of insurance companies; • restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and • regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have an adverse effect on our business. Currently, the U.S. federal government does not regulate directly the business of insurance. However, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed. These proposals include direct federal regulation of insurance through an optional federal charter and enhanced federal oversight through a Federal Insurance Office. We cannot predict whether these or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws may have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or to distribute our products. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance efforts and other expenses of doing business. U.S. federal and state securities laws apply to investment products that are also securities, including variable annuities and variable life insurance policies. As a result, some of our subsidiaries and the policies and contracts they offer are subject to regulation under these federal and state securities laws. Some of our insurance subsidiaries’ separate accounts are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Some subsidiaries are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, and are members of, and subject to regulation by, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA. In addition, one of our subsidiaries also is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with those laws and regulations. Legal and regulatory investigations and actions are increasingly common in the insurance business and may result in financial losses and harm our reputation. We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. In our insurance operations, we may become subject to class actions and we are or may 41 Table of Contents become subject to individual suits relating, among other things, to sales or underwriting practices, payment of contingent or other sales commissions, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, which may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. For example, the mutual fund and insurance industry has been the focus of increased scrutiny and class action lawsuits related to “revenue sharing” practices by mutual funds with service providers and others in offering mutual fund investments in qualified retirement plans. The lawsuits allege that service providers were involved in self-dealing and prohibited transactions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA. The outcome of these lawsuits is unknown. We have not been the subject of any inquiries or lawsuits regarding these practices. In addition, annuity sales to seniors are coming under increased scrutiny by FINRA and state insurance regulators, and have been the source of industry litigation in situations where annuity sales have allegedly been unsuitable for the seniors’ financial needs. We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas, market conduct exams and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities which may result in fines, recommendations for corrective action or other regulatory actions. Current or future investigations and proceedings could have an adverse effect on our business. A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions or precedents and industry-wide regulations or practices that could adversely affect our business. Proposals for national health care reform could have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of the health insurance products that we sell. In our Group segment, we sell group medical stop-loss insurance and limited benefit employee health plans to employer groups. Addressing the affordability and availability of health insurance, including reducing the number of uninsured, is a major initiative of President Obama and members of the U.S. Congress, and proposals that would address these issues are pending in the U.S. Congress and in many states. The proposals vary, and include a public health plan and other private health plans for individual and small business customers, individual insurance mandates, potential tax ramifications, including, among other things, a windfall profits tax on health insurers, the expansion of eligibility under existing Medicaid and/or Federal Employees Health Benefit Plan programs, minimum medical benefit ratios for health plans, mandatory issuance of insurance coverage, limitations on antitrust immunity and requirements that would limit the ability of health plans and insurers to vary premiums based on assessments of underlying risk. While certain of these measures would adversely affect us, at this time we cannot predict whether they will be enacted, and if enacted, the extent of the impact of these proposals on our business or results of operations. If any of these initiatives ultimately becomes effective, it could have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of the health insurance products and services we sell and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Medical advances, such as genetic research and diagnostic imaging, and related legislation could adversely affect the financial performance of our life insurance and annuities businesses. Genetic research includes procedures focused on identifying key genes that render an individual predisposed to specific diseases such as particular types of cancer and other diseases. Other medical advances, such as diagnostic imaging technologies, may be used to detect the early onset of diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular disease. We believe that if individuals learn through medical advances that they are predisposed to particular conditions that may reduce life longevity or require long-term care, they will be more likely to purchase our life insurance policies or not to permit existing polices to lapse. In contrast, if individuals learn 42 Table of Contents that they lack the genetic predisposition to develop the conditions that reduce longevity, they will be less likely to purchase our life insurance products but more likely to purchase certain annuity products. In addition, such individuals that are existing policyholders will be more likely to permit their policies to lapse. If we were to gain access to the same genetic or medical information as our prospective policyholders and contractholders, then we would be able to take this information into account in pricing our life insurance policies and annuity contracts. However, a growing body of law imposes limitations on an insurer’s ability to use genetic information in underwriting. Medical advances also could lead to new forms of preventive care. Preventive care could extend the life and improve the overall health of individuals. If this were to occur, the duration of payments under certain of our annuity products likely would increase, thereby reducing net earnings in that business. Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and as a result have an adverse effect on our business. Congress, from time to time, considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefits derived from the tax deferred nature of life insurance and annuity products. In addition, changes in tax laws could increase our tax liability or increase our reporting obligations. For example, in May 2009, President Obama released additional information about the tax proposals contained in his Fiscal Year 2010 Budget (the “Budget”). There are several proposals included in the Budget that are significant for life insurance companies. Those proposals include: modifying the dividends-received deduction for life insurance company separate accounts; requiring information reporting for private separate accounts of life insurance companies; imposing new reporting requirements and transfer-for-value rules on purchasers of certain life insurance contracts; expanding the interest expense disallowance for corporate-owned life insurance; requiring information reporting on payments to corporations; and increasing information return penalties. These proposals not only could increase our tax liabilities but also could reduce the attractiveness of certain products we sell. These proposals may not be enacted or may be modified by Congress prior to enactment. Furthermore, the federal estate tax, which has undergone a gradual repeal since 2001 that will continue to be phased in through 2010, is scheduled to revert to pre-2001 law as of January 1, 2011. The repeal of and continuing uncertainty regarding the federal estate tax may adversely affect sales and surrenders of some of our estate planning products. Failures elsewhere in the insurance industry could obligate us to pay assessments through guaranty associations. When an insurance company becomes insolvent, guaranty associations in each of the 50 states levy assessments upon all companies licensed to write insurance in the relevant lines of business in that state, and use the proceeds to pay claims of policyholder residents of that state, up to the state-specific limit of coverage. The total amount of the assessment is based on the number of insured residents in each state, and each company’s assessment is based on its proportionate share of premium volume in the relevant lines of business and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The failure of a large life, health or annuity insurer could trigger guaranty association assessments which we would be obligated to pay. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 43 Table of Contents 