D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry The trend toward greater outsourcing of R&D services by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may slow or reverse, which could adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The success of our business depends primarily on the number and size of contracts that we obtain from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Over the past several years, our business has benefited from increased levels of outsourcing of R&D activities by these companies. A slowing or reversal of this trend could adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. A reduction in R&D budgets at pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may result in a reduction or discontinuation of our services, which may adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Fluctuations in the R&D budgets of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies could have a significant effect on the demand for our services. R&D budgets fluctuate due to sales performance of these companies, including lost sales of products whose patents expire, competition, and other sources of reduced demand and the ability to replace lost sales with new products; changes in their available resources, their decisions to consolidate, their spending priorities and their budgetary policies and practices. A limited number of our customers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a high percentage of our revenues. The loss of, or significant reduction in, orders from any of these customers could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The recent trend of increased merger activity in the pharmaceutical industry increases this risk. We generated a large majority of our total net revenues from sales to customers headquartered in the United States. Our top ten customers accounted for 55.2% of our total 2011 revenues. Any of our existing customers may not continue to generate significant revenues for us once our current engagements with them conclude, and our relationships with them may not present further business opportunities. In addition, the recent mergers between large pharmaceutical companies, some of which are our customers, have resulted in reduced business. For example, at the end of 2009, two of our major customers completed a business combination with each other, which has produced a moderate reduction in business volume. This trend toward consolidation could adversely affect our financial condition. Similar business combinations could result in: • the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or contracts by one or more of our significant customers; 6 Table of Contents • the decision by one or more of our significant customers to award orders or contracts to our competitors; and • the substantial reduction in the price that one or more of our significant customers is willing to pay for our services and products. Furthermore, if we fail to build relationships with new customers or fail to sustain or expand relationships with existing customers, we may be unable to maintain or increase our revenues. Our ability to execute projects; to maintain, expand or renew existing customer engagements and to obtain new customers depends largely on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled scientists and other personnel. Our success largely depends on the breadth and depth of our team of scientists and other personnel and their capabilities and efforts for our customers on behalf of our company, including their ability to keep pace with continuing changes in pharmaceutical and medical device R&D technologies and methodologies. In particular, our customers value Western-trained scientists with experience at large pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology companies. Any inability to attract, motivate and retain qualified scientists and mid-level personnel and to train them in the latest developments in their fields of expertise may have a material adverse effect on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We face challenges in attracting and retaining consistently high-quality employees. We compete vigorously with pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and contract research companies and academic and research institutions for qualified and experienced scientists, particularly in our laboratory services in chemistry and biology and in our manufacturing services. To compete effectively, we may be required to offer higher compensation and other benefits, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We paid company-wide merit increases in 2011 and 2012. Despite these company-wide merit increases, we may be unable to hire and retain enough skilled and experienced scientists at current wage rates. In addition, we may be unable to redeploy and retrain our professionals to keep pace with changing customer needs, technological changes and performance standards. We face increasingly intense competition. If we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, some of whom subject us to increasing pricing pressure, demand for our services and related revenues may decrease. The global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing markets are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify. We face competition based on several factors, including: • quality of services; • breadth of service offerings; • ability to protect intellectual property or other confidential information; • timeliness of delivery; • maintenance of standards of good laboratory practices, or GLP, and good manufacturing practices, or GMP; • depth of customer relationships; • price; and • geography. We compete with contract research organizations, or CROs, contract manufacturing organizations and research and academic institutions, typically in specific service areas. For example, we compete with Covance Inc., or Covance, in the preclinical services area in China. We compete with ShangPharma Corporation, or ShangPharma, in the discovery chemistry area. As a result of the AppTec acquisition, we compete with BioReliance Corporation, or BioReliance, a division of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, in the biologics testing area, and with NAMSA and Toxikon Corporation, or Toxikon, in the medical device testing area. As a result of the acquisition of MedKey, we compete with Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc, or PPD, in the clinical research services area However, we believe that we do not compete with any single company across the entire breadth of our service offerings. We expect to increasingly compete against multinational companies, both domestically and internationally, as we continue to offer more complex and sophisticated broad-based laboratory and manufacturing services. Several major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies have made in-house research investments in China, and we expect this trend to continue. In addition, U.S.-based CROs have made investments in China-based CROs that are our competitors. For example, in 2009, PPD acquired BioDuro, L.L.C., or BioDuro. These investments may reduce demand for our services and result in increased competition for qualified personnel. 7 Table of Contents Some of our larger competitors may have: • greater financial, research and other resources; • a broader scope of services; • greater pricing flexibility; • more extensive technical capabilities; and • greater name recognition. We also expect increased competition as new companies enter our market and as more advanced technologies become available. Our competitors’ existing or new technologies or business approaches may be more effective than our own. Furthermore, increased competition creates pricing pressure on our services, which could reduce our profitability. New technologies or methodologies may be developed, validated and used in the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing industry that could reduce demand for some of our services. The global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing industry is constantly evolving, and we must keep pace with new technologies and methodologies to maintain our competitive position. For example, a new drug discovery method, known as a “genome-to-drug-lead” approach, in which molecules can be virtually screened against computer-predicted protein targets, could offer a way to reduce labor requirements for chemists who experimentally search for drug leads, one of the most significant obstacles to drug discovery. The method may also allow chemists to better exploit the extensive availability of drug targets at the gene level and may ultimately improve the success of moving discoveries from the laboratory to patients. As a result, we must continue to invest significant amounts of human and capital resources in R&D to enhance technologies that allow us to introduce new and better services. However, we may be unsuccessful in adapting to or commercializing these new technologies, if developed. New technologies could decrease the need for our existing technologies, and we may not be able to develop new services or technologies effectively or in a timely manner. Our failure to develop, enhance or adapt to new technologies and methodologies could significantly reduce demand for our services and harm our business and prospects. If we fail to effectively manage our anticipated growth and execute on our growth strategies, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer. Pursuing our growth strategies, including integrating and expanding our facilities and service offerings to meet our customers’ needs, has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial demands on our resources and management’s time. Managing this growth and our growth strategies will require, among other things: • continued enhancement of our pharmaceutical and medical device R&D capabilities; • effective coordination and integration of our research facilities and teams, particularly those located in different facilities, including newly opened sites; • successful hiring and training of personnel; • effective management of a business geographically distributed in the United States and China; 8 Table of Contents • effective cost control; • sufficient liquidity; • effective and efficient financial and management control; • increased marketing and sales-support activities; • effective quality control; and • management of our suppliers to leverage our purchasing power. Any failure to effectively manage our anticipated growth and execute on our growth strategies could adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We may be unable to expand our capacity and scale up our operations within the timeframe or budgeted costs that we anticipate, possibly resulting in material delay in preparing facilities for service, increased costs and lost business opportunities. We are engaged in a substantial expansion of our capabilities and capacity. For example, we are constructing a facility in the city of Wuxi to house pilot-scale cGMP manufacturing of biological products for preclinical and clinical trials. We expect this facility to be operational in late 2012. Preparing the facility for full operation, including introduction of our initial services and development of new services, may take longer than we plan. Any material delay or unforeseen cost increase in preparing the facility for operation could result in lost business opportunities and could materially and adversely affect our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We are making significant capital investments to scale up our services to meet our customers’ needs, and, as a result, we depend on the success of our customers’ projects and their continued business. We expanded our Jinshan manufacturing facility primarily to serve current and potential future customers for the commercial manufacturing of advanced intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs. We depend on our customers’ success in advancing products through development, regulatory approval and commercial launch and the market demand for those products. Any delay, non-approval or lack of demand may have a material impact on our manufacturing business. Consequently, we may be required to reallocate our resources, which could cause delays in our service offerings and result in lower than expected revenues. As we produce more advanced intermediates and APIs for commercial products, a business that inherently relies on producing larger volumes of fewer marketed drugs than our clinical-trial-scale manufacturing services, we will become more dependent on the success of a small number of marketed drugs and late-stage drug candidates in development. Because many of our fee-for-service contracts are contingent on successful completion of a project and often have a fixed price, we may bear financial risk. A significant portion of our net revenues, including a significant portion of our laboratory services revenues and all of our manufacturing services revenues, are based on fee-for-service contracts, which are contingent on successful completion of a project and often have a fixed price. In 2011, fee-for-service contracts accounted approximately 63% of our total revenues. If we do not deliver a service in a timely manner or otherwise as specified in the contract, if we incur cost overruns or if we intentionally price these contracts below our cost estimate because of competitive pressures, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We may fail to effectively develop and market new services, which may harm our growth opportunities and prospects, possibly resulting in losses. We intend to continue to expand beyond our core discovery chemistry, process research and clinical-trial-scale manufacturing services. Over the past few years, we have established new services in discovery biology; DMPK/ADME; core analytical services; formulation; analytical development services; bioanalytical services; and other areas. We are in the early stages of launching new services in preclinical toxicology, large-scale manufacturing and clinical trial services. To develop and/or market our new services successfully, we must: • accurately assess and meet customer needs; 9 Table of Contents • make significant capital expenditures; • optimize our pharmaceutical and medical device discovery, development and manufacturing processes to predict and control costs; • hire, train and retain the necessary personnel; • obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals; • increase customer awareness and acceptance of our services; • provide services of a high quality and in a timely manner; • price our services competitively; • compete effectively with other R&D outsourcing providers; and • effectively integrate customer feedback into our business planning. If we fail to effectively develop new services and create demand for them, our future business, including results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and prospects, could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of services of our senior management and key scientific personnel could severely disrupt our business and growth. Our success significantly depends upon the continued service of our senior management and key scientific personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on Dr. Ge Li, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who has managed our business, operations and sales and marketing activities and maintained personal and direct relationships with our major customers since our inception; Edward Hu, our Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Shuhui Chen, our Chief Scientific Officer; Dr. Suhan Tang, our Chief Manufacturing Officer; Xiaozhong Liu, our Executive Vice President and other senior management members and key scientific personnel. The loss of any of them, and in particular Dr. Li, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Although each member of our senior management and key scientific personnel has signed a noncompete agreement with us, we may be unable to successfully enforce these provisions in the event of a dispute. If we lose the services of any senior management members or key scientific personnel, we may be unable to locate and retain suitable qualified replacements and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and its growth. The global economic downturn adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global economic downtown affected certain areas of our business, particularly the biotechnology R&D outsourcing markets. Disruptions in orderly financial markets resulted from, among other factors, severely diminished liquidity, reduced credit availability, volatile and declining valuations of securities and other investments, reduced business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment. These factors, along with the interconnectedness and interdependence of international economies, created and may continue to create a global downturn in economic activity. The economic downturn adversely affected, and a future economic weakening in the United States or globally would adversely affect, our business in several ways, including: • Reduced demand for our services. In a period of economic uncertainty, customers may adopt a strategy to defer spending for global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing services to later periods. For example, customers who must finance their capital and other expenditures through various forms of debt may find financing unavailable to them, thereby reducing their ability and willingness to purchase our services. 10 Table of Contents • Increased pricing pressure and lower margins. If growth of our potential markets slows due to the global economic downturn, competition in the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing markets may become more intense, which could require us to offer or accept less favorable pricing and payment or other terms to remain competitive. For example, we anticipate that pricing pressures will contribute to reduction of our gross margins in 2012. In some cases, we may be unwilling or unable to compete for business where competitive pressures make a potential opportunity unprofitable to us. • Renminbi appreciation. If the RMB continues to appreciate in relation to the U.S. dollar, our profitability may be negatively impacted. We receive over 95% of our net revenues in U.S. dollars and pay a large majority of our expenses in RMB. Further appreciation of the RMB will increase the value of RMB expenses in relation to revenues denominated in dollars, euros, and yen to the extent that we do not, or are unable to, mitigate this appreciation through the purchase of foreign-exchange forward contracts. • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. The failure of any of our customers to make timely payments could require us to write off accounts receivable or increase provisions made against our accounts receivable, events that could adversely affect our cash flows and profitability. • Additional restructuring and impairment charges. If we cannot generate the level of revenues, profits and cash flow contemplated by our business plan, management may be forced to take further action to refocus our business activities and realign our cost structure with anticipated revenues. Economic conditions in the U.S., Europe, Japan and the rest of the world could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries, including healthcare reform, could decrease the need for the services we provide. Governmental agencies throughout the world, particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D process. Changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements, the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures or an increase in regulatory requirements that we may have difficulty satisfying or that may make our services less competitive could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, a comprehensive healthcare reform law in the United States, was enacted on March 23, 2010, and was amended by subsequent legislation. The law will implement healthcare system reforms including, but not limited to, (i) expansion of access to health insurance coverage, (ii) expansion of the Medicaid program, (iii) enactment of an industry fee on pharmaceutical companies, and (iv) imposition of an excise tax on the sale of medical devices. A primary objective of the healthcare reform is to control growing healthcare costs. For example, if health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursements for pharmaceutical products, our customers may spend less or reduce their growth in spending on R&D, which could reduce business opportunities available to us. In addition, new laws or regulations may increase our risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Similar reform movements have occurred in Europe and Asia. For example, in late 2010 the Chinese government announced significant price reductions for many pharmaceutical products. Any significant healthcare reforms that substantially change the financing and regulation of the healthcare industry could reduce our sales and profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customer agreements contain provisions that run counter to our interests or expose us to potential liability. Our customers’ agreements generally provide that the customers can terminate the agreements or reduce the scope of services with little or no notice. A majority of our customer agreements allow customers to unilaterally terminate for convenience upon prior notice ranging from 30 to 90 days. If a customer terminates a contract with us, under the terms of the contract we are only entitled to receive revenues earned up to the date of termination. Therefore, cancellation or modification of one large contract, or proximate cancellation or modification of multiple smaller contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. 11 Table of Contents In addition, in some of our customer contracts, we agree not to compete with the customer, either alone or together with third parties. We are required to seek the customer’s prior written consent before making compounds for other customers chemically similar to those made for the customer. For some customers, our noncompete obligation is broad. For example, with one of our customers we have agreed that, for up to ten years after termination of the agreement, any employee who has worked on the customer’s projects may not work on any other project whereby the knowledge gained from such customer’s projects would be relevant. Complying with these noncompete obligations may restrict our ability to expand certain service offerings, and failure to comply could significantly harm our business and reputation, as well as expose us to liability for breach of contract. We depend on a limited number of international supply sources, which, if interrupted, could cause disruption or delay to our services, reduce our sales and force us to use more expensive supply sources. We depend on a limited number of international sources for our supply of certain reagents and other chemicals required in our product and service offerings, particularly in connection with our manufacturing services. Disruptions or delays to their continued supply may arise from health problems, export or import restrictions, embargoes, political or economic instability, severe weather conditions, disruptions to the air-travel system, contract disputes or other causes. If the supply of certain materials were interrupted, our services would be delayed. We also may not be able to secure alternative supply sources in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we cannot obtain adequate supplies of required materials that meet our standards or are sold at acceptable costs, our ability to accept and fulfill customer orders in the required quality and quantity and at the required time could be restricted, which in turn could harm our reputation, reduce our sales, cause us to lose market share, force us to use more expensive sources of supply and materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Any failure by us to meet our customers’ standards in audits and inspections could harm our reputation. Our customers and various regulatory authorities routinely audit and inspect our facilities, processes and practices to ensure that our services are meeting their standards in the pharmaceutical and medical device product development process. To date, we have passed all such audits and inspections. However, failure to pass these audits or inspections to our customers’ and regulators’ satisfaction could significantly harm our reputation and could materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. If we fail to protect our customers’ intellectual property rights, we may be subject to liability for breach of contract and may suffer damage to our reputation. Protection of customers’ intellectual property, or IP, associated with pharmaceutical and medical device R&D services is critical to their success. Our customers generally retain ownership of all associated IP, including both IP that they provide to us and IP that we created and provided as part of our services. Our success therefore depends in substantial part on our ability to protect the proprietary rights of our customers. This is particularly important for us because a large part of our operation is based in China, and China and Chinese companies have not traditionally enforced IP protection to the same extent as the United States and U.S. companies. Despite measures we take to protect our customers’ or our own IP, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In some of our customer agreements, we have assumed indemnification obligations for IP infringement to the extent that we create the infringing aspect in deliverables by our customers. Our liability is usually not capped under these agreements. As a result, if any aspect of deliverables to our customers that we create infringes a third party’s IP rights, and particularly if such deliverable ultimately becomes a commercially successful product, we could be exposed to substantial liability. Any unauthorized disclosure of our customers’ IP could subject us to liability for breach of contract, as well as significant damage to our reputation, which could materially harm our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We may undertake acquisitions or make minority equity investments that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and may end up being unsuccessful. Acquisitions. Our growth strategy may involve acquisitions of new technologies, businesses, products or services or the creation of strategic alliances in areas where we do not currently operate. For example, in 2011, we acquired an antibody reagent company, a company performing radioactive chemistry compound synthesis services and clinical trial services facilities in three separate acquisitions. Integration of an acquired company or technology involves a complex, time consuming and expensive process. The successful integration of an acquisition requires, among other things, that we: • integrate and retain key management, sales and other personnel; 12 Table of Contents • integrate the acquired products into our product offerings both from an engineering and sales and marketing perspective; • integrate and support preexisting supplier, distribution and customer relationships; • coordinate research and development efforts; and • consolidate duplicate facilities and functions. The geographic distance between the companies, the complexity of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures being combined may increase the difficulties of integrating an acquired company or technology. Management’s focus on the integration of operations may distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. In addition, it is common in the technology industry for aggressive competitors to attract customers and recruit key employees away from companies during the integration phase of an acquisition. Investments. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire or make minority equity investments into additional businesses that are complementary to our existing businesses. In 2011, we formed a corporate venture fund, capitalized up to $50 million, with an investment focus on technology and life-science companies. As of December 31, 2011, this corporate venture fund has invested approximately $4.3 million in privately held companies. Our available cash and securities may be used to buy or invest in companies or products, possibly resulting in significant acquisition-related charges to earnings and dilution to our shareholders. Future acquisitions or equity investments will likely present challenges and could require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in these acquisitions and equity investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to effectively manage our own business. These acquisitions and equity investments may also expose us to other potential risks, including loss of the invested amounts, inability to earn an adequate return, unforeseen liabilities and diversion of resources from our existing businesses and potential harm to relationships with employees or customers. Any failure to comply with existing regulations and industry standards could harm our reputation and our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. A number of governmental agencies or industry regulatory bodies in China, the United States, Europe and Japan impose strict rules, regulations and industry standards on how we and our customers conduct pharmaceutical and medical device R&D. We may need to obtain clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or other regulatory authorities in the event that our customers’ preclinical trials are filed as part of an Investigational New Drug application or their clinical trials are filed as part of a New Drug Application, Biologic License Application or other filing to seek marketing approval. All facilities and processes used to manufacture pharmaceuticals and biologics in the United States, Europe and Japan must conform to standards established by the appropriate regulatory authority. These authorities may conduct scheduled or unscheduled periodic inspections of our facilities to monitor our regulatory compliance. China’s State Food and Drug Administration, or SFDA, published the revised 2010 edition of Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, for Pharmaceutical Products, which went into effect on March 1, 2011. This publication cites the concepts of quality risk management and whole process control of drug manufacturing and attaches greater importance to certain areas of work for consistency with GMP standards as defined by the World Health Organization. We may not pass inspections or obtain clearance for our operations from the regulatory authorities in the event that we are inspected, either immediately or over time. Further, any failure to comply with existing regulations and industry standards could result in fines or other punitive actions against us or our customers, the termination of ongoing research and the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities, or we may no longer be able to offer our services to our customers. For example, if we fail to treat research animals in accordance with international standards set out by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, or AAALAC, that organization could revoke accreditation and the accuracy of our animal research data could be questioned. Any material violation by us of GLP or GMP standards, as determined by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, could cause our customers to terminate their contracts with us. Any adverse action by regulatory authorities could have a material and adverse impact on our reputation and our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. 13 Table of Contents Our principal laboratory and manufacturing facilities may be vulnerable to natural disasters or other unforeseen catastrophic events. We conduct our primary R&D activities at our headquarters located in the Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone in Shanghai. We also conduct or plan to conduct R&D and/or manufacturing activities at seven other facilities in China located in the Jinshan area of Shanghai, Tianjin, Suzhou, Wuhan, Changzhou, Nanjing and Wuxi respectively, and at our four United States facilities in St. Paul, Minnesota; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; San Diego, California and Atlanta, Georgia. We depend on these facilities for continued business operations. Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortages, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business in its ordinary course. Our facilities and certain equipment located in these facilities would be difficult to replace in any such event and could require substantial replacement lead time. The occurrence of any such event could materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We have limited insurance coverage, and any claims beyond our insurance coverage may result in our incurring substantial costs and a diversion of resources. We maintain property insurance policies covering physical damage to, or loss of, our buildings and their improvements, equipment, office furniture and inventory. We hold employer’s liability insurance generally covering death or work-related injury of employees. We maintain product liability and professional errors and omissions insurance covering product liability claims arising from the use, consumption or operation of our small-molecule compounds and biologics and claims arising from negligence in connection with our services to customers. We hold public liability insurance covering certain incidents involving third parties that occur on or in the premises of the company. We hold directors and officers liability insurance. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover any claim for product liability, damage to our fixed assets or employee injuries. Insurance companies in China, to our knowledge, do not offer business liability insurance. While business interruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the cost makes this insurance impractical. We therefore do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our China operations. Any business disruption or litigation or any liability or damage to, or caused by, our facilities or our personnel beyond our insurance coverage may result in our incurring substantial costs and a diversion of resources. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our pharmaceutical and medical device R&D processes involve the use of highly toxic and hazardous materials. Any failure by us to control the use or discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. We are subject to national, state, provincial and local regulations governing the manufacture, handling or other use, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. We cannot fully eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials, and we may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As our pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D processes generate wastewater, toxic and hazardous substances and other industrial wastes, we must comply with all national and local environmental regulations in China and the United States. Because the requirements imposed by environmental laws and regulations may change and more stringent regulations may be adopted, we may be unable to comply with, or to accurately predict the potentially substantial cost of complying with these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. In addition, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials. If we fail to prevent contamination or injury, we could be liable for any resulting damages, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. Some of our current services involve testing pharmaceuticals and medical devices in laboratory animals. As we expand our service biology offerings into toxicology, we anticipate that we will work extensively with large animals, including non-human primates. Although the testing of pharmaceuticals in animals is almost universally mandated by law, certain special interest groups categorically object to the use of animals for these research purposes. Any threats directed against our animal research activities or negative media attention could impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety testing procedures that utilize laboratory animals, as has been advocated by certain groups, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents In providing our pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing services, we face health and safety liability and product liability risks. In providing our pharmaceutical development services, we face a range of potential liabilities. For example, animals serving as disease models and animals infected with diseases for research purposes may be harmful, or even lethal, to humans despite preventive measures we take for animal quarantine and handling. We also face product liability risks if the pharmaceuticals and medical devices we help to develop and manufacture are subject to product liability claims. We provide services in the development, testing and manufacturing of pharmaceuticals and medical devices that may ultimately be used by humans, including biologic products to be tested in human clinical trials, although we do not commercially market or sell the products to end users. If any of these pharmaceuticals or medical devices harms people, we may be subject to litigation and may be required to pay damages to those persons. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a material and adverse impact on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Although we currently maintain product liability and professional errors and omissions insurance, our insurance coverage may be inadequate or may become unavailable on terms acceptable to us. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires that we include a report from management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011, our management may later conclude that our internal control is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is designed, documented, operated or reviewed, or if they interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently from the way we do, then they may issue an adverse or qualified opinion on our consolidated financial statements. Any of these outcomes could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our audited consolidated financial statements, which could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Restrictions on our operations contained in agreements relating to bank loans may limit how we conduct our business, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders. We entered into a facility agreement with JPMorgan Chase on January 8, 2009, in the amount of $20.0 million, which included a $4.0 million U.S. dollar-denominated short-term loan facility and a $16.0 million U.S. dollar-denominated revolving loan facility. On January 28, 2010, we amended the abovementioned agreement to convert the original facility to a $20.0 million short-term revolving line of credit. On January 24, 2011, we entered into amendment No.1 to extend this $20.0 million line of credit for another twelve months. According to the renewal agreement, we are required to pay a management fee at the rate of 0.2% per annum for the undrawn amount under the facility. On December 31, 2011, we entered into amendment No.2 to increase the limits of the line of credit to $25.0 million and extend the credit period for another twelve months. All loan agreements contain covenants on our major corporate actions that may limit the manner in which we conduct our business, including requirements that: • we maintain several debt-related financial ratios beyond certain thresholds; • we repay each loan, which is payable on demand by JPMorgan Chase; 15 Table of Contents • we do not pay a dividend to our shareholders in excess of 35% of our net income during the fiscal year in which the dividend is paid; and • we do not enter into more than a specified number of new PRC and non-PRC loans. Risks Relating to China The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. China enacted a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules effective January 1, 2008. The New EIT Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, under its predecessor. The New EIT Law, however, (a) reduces the statutory rate of enterprise income tax, or EIT, from 33% to 25%, (b) permits companies established before March 16, 2007, that were eligible for preferential tax rates according to then-effective tax laws and regulations to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules, and gradually to transit to the uniform 25% EIT rate by January 1, 2013, and (c) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. Therefore, as enterprises established prior to the promulgation of the New EIT Law, WASH, STA, WATJ and WASZ are still entitled to their preferential tax treatment, which shall also be subject to the transitional phase-out rules. In addition, based on the New EIT Law, an enterprise that is entitled to preferential treatment in the form of EIT reduction or a tax holiday exemption but has not been profitable and, therefore, has not enjoyed such preferential treatment was required to begin its tax holiday exemption in 2008. As such, certain subsidiaries have begun their tax holiday exemption in 2008, even though they were not yet cumulatively profitable at that time. The New EIT Law and its implementing rules permit certain “high and new technology enterprises,” or HNTEs, to enjoy a reduced 15% EIT rate subject to certain general factors described in the New EIT Law and the related regulations. In the fourth quarter of 2008, our PRC subsidiaries WXAT, WASH, WATJ and STA were recognized by the local provincial level Municipal Science and Technology Commission, Finance Bureau and State and Local Tax Bureaus as HNTEs under the New EIT Law. Therefore WXAT, WASH, WATJ and STA are eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% as long as they maintain their qualification as an HNTE. The HNTE qualification of our PRC subsidiaries WXAT, WASH, WATJ and STA was valid for three years starting from calendar year 2008 through 2010 and were successful in renewing the certificate for years 2011 through 2013. According to the three-year review schedule regulated by the relevant government authority, WXAT, WASH, WATJ and STA successfully passed the first three-year review of HNTE qualification in 2011. Thus, those four entities are eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% for 2011 through 2013. The continued qualification of HNTE status is subject to annual evaluation by the relevant PRC government authorities. In addition, WXAT, WASH, WATJ and STA will need to apply for an additional three-year extension upon the expiration of the current HNTE qualification. Our computation of deferred tax is based on enacted tax rates that do not factor in the extension of the HNTE status. WXAT started to enjoy the HNTE policy from 2008.However, WASH, STA and WATJ chose not adopt the HNTE policy until the transitional periods of the New EIT Law expire. In 2011, WASH’s transitional period expired and therefore WASH began to apply the tax rate of 15% as an HNTE. The applicable transitional period tax rates of STA and WATJ remained under 15% as of December 31, 2011. If any or all of them fail to maintain the HNTE qualification, their applicable EIT rate may increase to up to 25%, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition to the HNTE preferential tax policy, according to relevant PRC tax laws and regulations, qualified advanced technology service enterprises, or ATSEs, can also enjoy a reduced 15% EIT rate during the period from 2009 through 2013. It was unknown whether such policy will be extended after 2013. In 2009 and 2010, our PRC subsidiaries WASH and WASZ were recognized as ATSEs. Therefore, each is eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% for five years (i.e., from 2009 to 2013) as long as it maintains its qualification as an ATSE. However, WASH and WASZ chose to continue using the transitional period tax rate until expiration in 2010 and 2012, respectively. If WASH still qualifies as an ATSE, it will be subject to EIT at 15% for 2012 to 2013. WASZ could enjoy a 15% rate as an ATSE in 2013 if ATSE qualification is still met. Since the company’s ability to continue to qualify for ATSE status is subject to the tax authority’s discretion, for the years following the company’s approved incentive period, the statutory tax rate of 25% is used to calculate deferred taxes until such approval is granted. Preferential tax treatment granted to our subsidiaries by the local governmental authorities is subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment currently available to us and our wholly owned subsidiaries will cause our effective tax rate to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current effective tax rate in the future. 16 Table of Contents Under China’s New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. This classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under China’s New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for EIT purposes. A tax circular issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009, or Circular 82, regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-invested enterprises controlled by Chinese enterprises or Chinese group enterprises and established outside of China as resident enterprises clarified that dividends paid by such resident enterprises and other income paid by such resident enterprises will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when received or recognized by non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders. This circular also subjects such resident enterprises to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define “de facto management bodies” as “management bodies that exercise substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. In addition, Circular 82 specifies that certain China-invested enterprises controlled by Chinese enterprises or Chinese group enterprises will be classified as resident enterprises if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision-making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of senior management or directors having voting rights. Currently no further official interpretation or application of this new resident enterprise classification is available; therefore it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. Currently, a substantial majority of the members of our management team as well as the management team of some of our offshore holding companies are located in China. However, Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us. In the absence of detailed implementing regulations or other guidance determining that offshore companies controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us are PRC resident enterprises, we do not currently consider our Company or any of our overseas subsidiaries to be a PRC resident enterprise. However, the State Administration of Taxation may take the view that the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 reflects the general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of all offshore enterprises. Additional implementing regulations or guidance may be issued determining that our Cayman Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Islands holding company is a resident enterprise for PRC EIT purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to EIT at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as to PRC EIT reporting obligations. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividend income between qualified resident enterprises is exempted income, we cannot assure you that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC EIT purposes. Finally, the New EIT Law and its implementing rules issued by PRC tax authorities suggest that dividends paid by us to our non-PRC shareholders and, while less clear, capital gains recognized by them with respect to the sale of our stock may be subject to a withholding tax of 10% for non-PRC enterprise shareholders and potentially 20% for non-PRC individual shareholders. Similarly, these unfavorable consequences could apply to our BVI holding company if it is classified as a PRC resident enterprise. The discontinuation of any of the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could adversely affect our financial position, results of operation, cash flows and prospects. Since inception, we have benefited from either exemptions or subsidies with respect to income tax and sales tax. Our eligibility to receive these financial incentives requires that we continue to qualify for these financial incentives. The incentives are subject to the discretion of the central government or relevant local government authorities, who could determine at any time to immediately eliminate or reduce these financial incentives, generally with prospective effect. Since our receipt of the financial incentives is subject to periodic time lags and inconsistent government practice, for as long as we continue to receive these financial incentives, our net income in a particular period may be higher or lower relative to other periods based on the potential changes in these financial incentives in addition to any business or operational factors that we may otherwise experience. For example, we expect downward pressure on future margins on goods manufactured for export due to changes in China’s value added tax, or VAT, system, reducing the potential VAT export refund rate on certain categories of goods from 15% to 0%. 17 Table of Contents We face uncertainty from PRC value-added tax reform which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us. On November 5, 2008, the State Council of China approved the amendments to the Provisional Regulations of the PRC on Value Added Tax, or Amended VAT Regulations. The key change is a shift from a production-based to a consumption-based VAT regime. Under the old regime, the recovery of input VAT incurred on the purchase of fixed assets is disallowed. The Amended VAT Regulations will allow general VAT payers to recover input VAT incurred on the purchase of certain fixed assets. The new VAT treatment of fixed assets applies to equipment purchased on or after January 1, 2009. Equipment for this purpose includes machinery, means of transportation and other equipment and tools related to production and operation. Before December 31, 2008, there was a policy of VAT exemption on imported equipment. This preferential VAT policy was abolished as of January 1, 2009. Because of the different business activities and locations of our PRC subsidiaries, the Amended VAT Regulations have different impacts on each of these entities. The Amended VAT Regulations will allow STA, our manufacturing entity and a VAT tax payer, to credit input VAT on qualified equipment purchases (both imported and domestic). Our other subsidiaries, including WXAT, WATJ, WASZ, WAWH and WABIO, cannot continue to enjoy the VAT exemption on imported equipment. Also, these subsidiaries cannot credit input VAT on qualified equipment purchases because their primary income is from service fees that are subject to business tax rather than VAT. Therefore the VAT reform will increase the cost of imported equipment purchased by WXAT, WATJ, WASZ, WAWH and WABIO. Although WASH is of a similar nature to WXAT, WATJ, WASZ, WXWH and WABIO and therefore cannot enjoy the credit input VAT on qualified equipment purchases, it will continue to enjoy the VAT exemption on its imported equipment because it is located in the Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone in Shanghai. On October 26, 2011 the State Council of China approved a new tax rule to launch the VAT reform pilot program in Shanghai beginning on January 1, 2012. On November 16, 2011, China’s Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly issued the Circular on the Pilot Program for the Collection of Value Added Tax Instead of Business Tax, or Circular 110, and the Circular on the Pilot Program for the Collection of Value Added Tax Instead of Business Tax in Transportation and Certain Modern Service Sectors in Shanghai, or the Circular 111, to provide specific implementation rules for pilot program, which became effective January 1, 2012. As part of a tax replacement policy, Circular 110 and Circular 111 allow companies in the traffic and transport sector and certain modern service sectors in Shanghai. to pay a VAT, instead of the business tax. Starting from January 1, 2012, a 17% rate will apply to the movable property leasing sector, an 11% rate to the traffic and transport sector and a 6% rate to sectors related to research and development, technological services, culture, logistics and consultation. According to the existing business tax rules, our revenue from R&D services is subject to a 5% business tax on gross revenue while the recovery of the input VAT incurred on the purchase of raw materials and VAT-able service is disallowable. Under the new VAT reform pilot program, our R&D service revenue is subject to a 6% VAT on revenue; however, the input VAT incurred on the purchase of raw materials and VAT-able service is recoverable and can be used as a credit when calculating VAT. Under both the business tax rules and the new VAT reform pilot rules, the revenue from R&D service can be eligible for the exemption policy if the R&D service meets some standards and receives a certification from a Commission of Science or Commission of Commerce at the provincial level. Furthermore, on December 29, 2011, China’s Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly issued The Notice on Application of Zero Rate and Exempt Treatment for Certain Taxable Services, or Circular 131, to clarify the scope of taxable services eligible for the zero rate or exemption under the VAT reform pilot program in Shanghai. Circular 131 applies as of January 1, 2012, the same date the pilot program commenced. According to Circular 131, R&D services provided to overseas entities are eligible for the zero-rate policy, which means that no VAT is charged on the invoice to overseas customers and the input VAT associated with the service provided to the customer is fully recoverable. WASH and STA R&D, two of our major subsidiaries, which are located in Shanghai and derive their main revenues from R&D services, will be subject to this new VAT reform pilot program beginning in 2012. As the new pilot program is just being rolled out as of January 1 2012 and still is in a trial phase, its impact on future operation is uncertain. The government may revise or withdraw some preferential policies during the trial phase. Fluctuations in exchange rates have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, foreign-exchange losses and to adversely impact our profitability. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. As a result, from July 21, 2005 to April 10, 2012, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 23.8% against the U.S. dollar. In 2011, approximately 95% of our net revenues were generated from sales denominated in U.S. dollars, and a significant portion of our operating costs and expenses were denominated in Renminbi. As a result, when the Renminbi appreciates against the dollar, our margins are pressured. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 1.0% per day and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign-exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi-dollar exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign-exchange market. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we pay. More recently, the PRC government has indicated a willingness to allow the Renminbi to appreciate against the U.S. dollar. 18 Table of Contents Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We periodically purchase derivative financial instruments such as foreign-exchange forward contracts to manage our exposure to Renminbi-dollar exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We conduct a significant portion of our business operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage, but also to control, economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations. Furthermore, the PRC government, through the People’s Bank of China, continues to implement interest rate increases to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to investors and the Company. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing general economic matters. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries are FIEs and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to FIEs. These laws and regulations change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. In addition, some regulatory requirements issued by certain PRC government authorities may not be consistently applied by other government authorities, including local government authorities, thus making strict compliance with all regulatory requirements impractical or, in some circumstances, impossible. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we benefit from either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in legal systems in more developed nations. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. By way of further example, although required by PRC law, many FIEs, including our PRC subsidiaries, have not historically obtained approvals from the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, or its counterparts before receiving approval from the Ministry of Commerce or its counterparts for their establishment. The NDRC has recently reiterated its position that the establishment of FIEs is subject to the NDRC’s approval, in addition to any other required PRC government approvals. However, the legal consequence for failure by those FIEs, including our PRC subsidiaries, to obtain NDRC approval is not prescribed under the current PRC law. As a result, these uncertainties, together with any development or interpretation of the PRC law that is adverse to us, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and reputation and the trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated a regulation that became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, has provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. We completed the initial listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE in August 2007. We did not seek CSRC approval in connection with our initial public offering. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear, with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. 19 Table of Contents Our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, advised us that because we completed our restructuring for the initial public offering before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it was not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE did not require CSRC approval. A copy of Commerce & Finance Law Offices’ legal opinion regarding this PRC regulation is filed as an exhibit to our registration statement on Form F-1 in connection with our initial public offering, which is available at the SEC website at www.sec.gov. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for the initial public offering, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. If the CSRC later requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties. A failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to complete any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from distributing profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, has promulgated several regulations that require PRC residents to register with and/or obtain approvals from branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. On October 21, 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which became effective as of November 1, 2005. Notice 75, requires (a) PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any offshore company, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets or equities of PRC companies and raising funds from overseas, (b) any PRC resident who is a shareholder of an offshore special purpose company to amend such shareholder’s SAFE registration with the relevant SAFE branch with respect to such company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China, and (c) registration by March 31, 2006, of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in such companies. In November 2005 and May 2007, SAFE promulgated implementing rules with respect to Notice 75. We previously notified and urged our shareholders who are PRC residents to make the necessary registrations and filings as required under these regulations, and these shareholders have made efforts to register their investments in our company with the local SAFE branch in Wuxi, China. However, the local SAFE branch in Wuxi declared that registrations under Notice 75 were not required from these shareholders. As Notice 75 Implementing Rules are relatively new, it remains unclear how Notice 75, and any future PRC legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted and implemented by the relevant PRC government authorities, and whether the local SAFE branch in Wuxi correctly interpreted Notice 75 as to its application to certain of our shareholders. Therefore, we cannot assure you that all relevant shareholders have made or will make and obtain all applicable registrations or filings required by these regulations or other related legislation. Our PRC counsel has advised us that if any of our PRC shareholders fails to make any required SAFE registrations and amendments thereto, our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries may be limited, and our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us. Moreover, the failure to comply with SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign-exchange restrictions. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiaries to fund cash and financing requirements. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. 20 Table of Contents We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. If any of our subsidiaries in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by the subsidiary only out of its retained earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, each of our operating subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund specific reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. A wholly foreign-owned enterprise is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits of the preceding year as its reserve funds. It may stop contributing if the aggregate amount of the reserve funds has already accounted for more than 50% of its registered capital. Moreover, upon a board resolution, it may set aside certain amounts from its after-tax profits of the preceding year as bonus and welfare funds for staff and workers. An equity joint-venture enterprise is required to set aside reserve funds, bonus and welfare funds for staff and workers and development funds, the percentage of which shall be determined by the board. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, each of the operating subsidiaries in China is restricted in its ability to transfer a portion of its net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. As of December 31, 2011, the restricted portion of their net assets totaled $163.2million, which is composed of the registered capital and the statutory reserve of the PRC subsidiaries. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries in China to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Under China’s existing foreign-exchange regulations, each of our subsidiaries in China is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from SAFE or its local counterparts, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the PRC government may take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign-exchange transactions by our subsidiaries under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign-exchange controls and require the registration with, and approval of, PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if one subsidiary receives foreign-currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts. If we finance such subsidiary by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These requirements could affect the ability of our subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian flu in China or similar epidemics or pandemics may severely disrupt our business and operations. Epidemics or pandemics could disrupt businesses and the national economy of China and other countries where we do business. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. However, a number of isolated new cases of SARS were subsequently reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. In April 2009, an outbreak of the H1N1 strain of influenza occurred in Mexico and the United States, and human cases of swine flu were, and continue to be, discovered in China and Hong Kong. In 2010, the head of the World Health Organization declared that the H1N1 pandemic to be over but warned that the swine flu virus would continue to circulate as part of seasonal influenza for years to come. In early 2010, several cases were reported in some provinces of China. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that influenza may have on our business. Any future outbreak of SARS, H1N1 or similar epidemics or pandemics may significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, may restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities in China may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that our PRC subsidiary or our affiliated entity owes additional taxes could substantially reduce our net income and the value of our shareholders’ investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We would be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contracts between our subsidiaries were not executed on an arm’s length basis, and as a result the PRC tax authorities could require that our PRC subsidiaries adjust their taxable income upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our tax expenses. 21 Table of Contents The audit reports included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. As an auditor of companies that are publicly traded in the United States and a firm registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, our independent registered public accounting firm is required by the laws in the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and the professional standards of the PCAOB. However, because our auditor is located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other auditors conducted by the PCAOB outside of China have at times identified deficiencies in those auditor’s audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. In addition, the inability of the PCAOB to conduct auditor inspections in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors located outside of China that are subject to regular PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections and may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Relating to Investing in Our ADSs Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below investors’ expectations, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate depending upon numerous factors, including: • the signing, completion or cancellation of contracts, and in particular large contracts; • the progress of ongoing contracts; • trends in costs and expenses, such as from labor inflation, Renminbi appreciation, investment, and the our ability to increase its prices to reflect these changes in costs; • impairment charges and charges related to discontinued operations; • acquisitions, dispositions or discontinuances of businesses and any associated charges; • our customers’ requirements for delivery of services, including timing of delivery, particularly our manufacturing services; • changes in the mix of our revenues from our laboratory service and manufacturing services businesses, including the portion of services performed on a fee-for-service or full-time-equivalent basis; • changes in the R&D outsourcing industry’s operating environment; and • changes in government policies or regulations or their enforcement. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. The trading prices of our ADSs have been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. Between January 1, 2011 and April 10, 2012, the trading price of our ADSs on the NYSE ranged from $18.89 to $10.78 per ADS, and the last reported sale price on April 19, 2012 was $13.73 per ADS. The trading prices of our ADSs could fluctuate widely in response to factors beyond our control. Broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. 22 Table of Contents In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. In particular, factors such as variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow and announcements of new investments or acquisitions could cause the trading price of our ADSs to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and trading price of our ADSs. In the past, following periods of volatility in the trading price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert the attention of senior management, and, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will attempt to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten clear days. When a general meeting is convened, holders of our ADSs may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit the holder to withdraw the ordinary shares to allow the holder to cast his or her vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to the holder or carry out the holder’s voting instructions in a timely manner. We make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to holders of our ADSs in a timely manner, but holders may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that the holder can instruct the depositary to vote his or her shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise the right to vote and may lack recourse if the holder’s ordinary shares are not voted as requested. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, could modify our structure or could cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preference shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preference shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preference shares, the market price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. Because our directors are divided into three classes with staggered terms of three years each, shareholders can only elect or remove a limited number of our directors in any given year. The length of these terms could present an obstacle to certain actions, such as a merger or other change of control, that could be in the interest of our shareholders. Holders of ADSs may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to the holders. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay holders of our ADSs cash dividends or other distributions that it or the custodian of our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Holders of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares the holder’s ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if the securities being distributed require registration under the Securities Act but are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that holders of our ADSs may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to the holders. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of the holder’s ADSs. We intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends directly on our ordinary shares, or indirectly on our ADSs, in the foreseeable future. 23 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings. From time to time, we may distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. To the extent holders of our ADSs hold certificated ADRs rather than holding ADSs through their bank, broker or other nominee through the Depositary Trust Company, the ADSs represented by ADRs will be transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time that it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies and will close its books on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of, or circumstance permitted by, the deposit agreement. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ADSs or ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either (a) the average quarterly value of our gross assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our total gross assets, or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC for a given taxable year if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents in that year. Based in part on our estimate of the composition of our income and our estimates of the value of our assets, we do not expect to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2011. However, PFIC status is tested each year and will depend on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets from time to time, including goodwill and equity investments in less-than-25%-owned entities. Because we expect to hold a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market price of our ADSs, which fluctuates, we may be a PFIC in the future. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10.E, “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” We are a Cayman Islands company. Because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, shareholders may have fewer shareholder rights than they would have under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association (as may be amended from time to time), the Cayman Islands Companies Law, or the Companies Law, and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. This common law is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law than the United States. In addition, some states in the United States, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. 24 Table of Contents Moreover, as a non-U.S. company with foreign private-issuer status, we have been exempted from, and you may not be provided with the benefits of, some of the NYSE corporate-governance requirements applicable to U.S. companies, including that: • a majority of our board of directors must be independent directors; • the compensation of our chief executive officer must be determined or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and • our director nominees must be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors. In addition, as a Cayman Islands exempted company, our shareholders have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our Articles of Association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for you to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. As a Cayman Islands company, we may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, you may be limited in your ability to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a United States federal court. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may be unenforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company, and the majority of our assets and a large part of our operations are located outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our current operations are conducted, and a substantial portion of our operating assets are located, in the PRC. In addition, many of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil-liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not resident in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC may not recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil-liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, such Cayman Islands or PRC courts may not be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. We may need additional capital that we may be unable to obtain in a timely manner on acceptable terms. In order to expand our capacity, develop new services and remain competitive, we may require additional capital. Financing may be unavailable in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital-raising activities by life science and related companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in China, the United States and other countries. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in dilution to the shares held by our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants restricting our operations or our ability to pay dividends. 25 Table of Contents 