Risk Factors — Risks relating to our relationship with the Biwater Group — Future sales by our majority shareholder of a substantial number of shares in the public market could adversely affect the price of our shares.” Shares sold in our initial public offering are generally eligible for resale in the public market without restrictions, and the shares owned by our affiliated shareholders may also be sold in the public market in the future, subject to Rule 144 restrictions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our shares or equity-related securities or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of our shares or equity-related securities would have on the market price of our shares. You will not be able to trade our shares on any exchange outside the United States. Our shares are listed only in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange and we have no plans to list our shares in any other jurisdiction. As a result, a holder of our shares outside the United States may not be able to effect transactions in our shares as readily as the holder could if our shares were listed on an exchange in that holder’s home jurisdiction. You may have difficulty protecting your rights as a shareholder and in enforcing civil liabilities because we are a Dutch public limited liability company. Our offices and all of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition some of the members of our board are residents of, and most of their assets are located in, jurisdictions outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to serve process on us or these persons within the United States. It may also be difficult for you to enforce a U.S. court judgment against us or those persons because there is no treaty on the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters between the United States and The Netherlands. This can include actions under the U.S. securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for you to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, liabilities under the U.S. securities laws. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Dutch law and will differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law, and your shareholder rights under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights are established under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in The Netherlands. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of Cascal, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders in all cases with reasonableness and fairness. Also, as a Dutch company, we are not required to solicit proxies or prepare proxy statements for general meetings of shareholders. Dutch law does not have a regulatory regime for U.S.-style proxy solicitations and, even though Dutch law accommodates voting by proxy, the solicitation of proxies is not a widely used business practice in The Netherlands. In addition, the rights of holders of common shares and many of the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Dutch law and our Articles of Association and differ 23 Table of Contents from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company’s shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company. The provisions of Dutch corporate law and our Articles of Association have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our board. As a result, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of the board of directors than if we were incorporated in the United States. See Item 10B “Memorandum and articles of association — Summary comparison of other corporate governance and shareholders’ rights and matters under Dutch corporation law and Delaware corporation law.” 24 Table of Contents 