D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition (including effects on assets, liabilities and cash flows), and results of operations could suffer material adverse effects due to any of the risks described below. As a result, the market price of our shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. While we have described below 5 Table of Contents all the risks that we consider material, those risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Relating to the Company’s Business The Company has been in the recent past, and may continue to be, adversely affected by economic and market conditions. The global recession and credit crisis have adversely affected the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company’s business has been, and in the future will continue to be, affected by economic and market conditions, including factors such as the unemployment rate, level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending habits, and interest rates. Because substantially all of the Company’s services are discretionary items, the deterioration of the economies in Northern Europe, Central and Eastern Europe, Russia, Africa or other key international markets could reduce the demand for the Company’s services and adversely affect the Company’s subscription and advertising revenues. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions. Decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities and reduce their advertising expenditures. Declines in consumer spending due to weak economic conditions could also indirectly impact the Company’s advertising revenues by causing downward pricing pressure on advertising because advertisers may not perceive as much value from advertising if consumers are purchasing fewer of their products or services. Although the Company has undertaken and will continue to undertake marketing and other activities to counteract the economic downturn, it is uncertain whether these efforts will succeed in generating sufficient demand to achieve its operating targets. The global recession and credit crisis have adversely affected our financial position and results of operations; we cannot predict if or when economic conditions in the countries in which we operate will recover and a failure to recover promptly will continue to adversely affect our results of operations. The economic uncertainty affecting the global financial markets and banking system since 2009 has had an adverse impact on economic growth in our operating countries, some of which have remained in recession. There has been a widespread withdrawal of investment funding from the Central and Eastern European markets and companies with investments in these markets. Furthermore, the economic downturn has adversely affected consumer and business spending, access to credit, liquidity, investments, asset values and employment rates. These adverse economic conditions have had a material negative impact on the advertising industries in some of our markets, leading our customers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising. This has resulted in a decrease in demand for advertising airtime and a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For example, in 2009 and 2011, the Company recorded significant impairment losses to its operating income relating to its free-TV business in Bulgaria and Slovenia, reflecting the deterioration in the economic and financial climate and the prevailing market conditions. The Slovenian business was deemed not viable and was wound down in 2012. While there are some indications that the decline in economic growth rates in certain of our operating countries has reached the bottom, any recovery in these countries could be uneven or slow to gain momentum. We cannot predict the sustainability of any such recovery should it occur. The absence of a recovery or a weak recovery in our markets will continue to adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A decline in advertising expenditures in the countries in which the Company operates could cause its revenues to decline significantly. The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on its television stations, radio stations, DTH platform and websites. The Company’s advertising revenue depends on the advertising expenditures in the countries in which the Company operates generally and advertising expenditures accounted for by television and radio specifically and the Company’s share of total advertising in those markets accounted for by television and radio. The future level of advertising expenditures in the countries in which the Company operates and the proportion of such expenditures accounted for by television, radio or print advertising will be affected by consumer behavior, consumer spending and the general economic climate in such countries, all of which are outside the Company’s control. Any material decrease in the advertising expenditures in the countries in which the Company 6 Table of Contents operates generally and advertising expenditures accounted for by television and radio specifically, may have an adverse effect on the Company’s advertising revenue and results of operations. Furthermore, average television viewing hours are traditionally lower in Northern Europe (where the Company currently generates the bulk of its revenue) than in other European regions and countries. This dynamic has negatively affected advertising revenues in Northern Europe due to the unwillingness of increasingly centralized major European advertisers to pay the higher prices per viewer for advertising in the Northern European market as compared with the prices prevailing in other European markets. This difference may continue to exist in the future and may adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenue and results of operations. The industry in which the Company’s operates is highly competitive. Competition for viewers, pay-TV subscribers, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, video gaming sites and other media, and pirated content. The Company’s ability to compete successfully is dependent on a number of factors, including the ability to provide high quality and popular entertainment content attractive to its audiences, maintain its appeal to advertisers, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution. Although the Company has continued to develop its services through technological innovation and by licensing, acquiring and producing a broad range of content, it cannot predict with certainty the changes that may occur in the future which may affect the competitiveness of its businesses or may not be able to compete effectively even if it predicts such changes. The Company’s competitors also include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated. Certain competitors may have broader coverage, greater name recognition, larger market share, wider programming content or access to more funding than we do, or with newer niche channels or pay-TV services offering competitive programming formats. If the Company cannot compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, this may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s operating results are dependent on the sale of commercial advertising time at competitive prices. The Company’s business depends significantly on advertising revenue, which represented 42% of its revenue in 2012 and is determined by the amount of commercial advertising time sold by or through the Company and the advertising prices charged. Both the advertising time and prices are affected by the relative quality and popularity of the Company’s programming, ratings for its television and radio stations, its broadcast reach, its audience share and the distribution of the channels on which it sells advertising, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment, the viewing behavior of the television audience, television and radio listening levels and general economic conditions. Any adverse development in any of these factors could result in a decline in the advertising revenue and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues is derived from certain sectors of the economy. The Company derives a significant portion of its advertising revenues from companies in certain sectors of the economy, including food and beverage, financial and business services, insurance, automotive, motion picture, medical care, apparel, fashion, retail, toiletries, cosmetics, telecommunications, household products and travel. Any economic, political, social, technological, legal or regulatory change (including change due to pressure from public interest groups) resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these sectors could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s operating results are dependent on its ability to attract new and retain existing subscribers for its pay-TV services and its ability to charge competitive subscription fees. The Company’s business depends substantially on subscription revenue, which represented 49% of its revenue in 2012 and is determined by the number of subscribers and level of subscription fees. The ability to attract new and retain existing subscribers for the Company’s pay-TV services and the ability to charge competitive subscription fees is largely dependent on the popularity of the programming it is able to secure. Although the Company makes 7 Table of Contents significant investments in programming, it cannot be assured that its programming will attract satisfactory viewer levels. In addition, the Company may, as a result of declining popularity of the programming, competitive pressures or other factors, decrease the level of subscription fees. Any material decrease of the Company’s programming popularity or other competitive pressures could reduce the number of subscribers or lead to a reduction of the level of subscription fees, any of which could lead to a decline in the Company’s subscription revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company may not be able to develop or acquire programming that is attractive to its audiences, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. The ability of programming to generate advertising or subscription revenue depends substantially on the Company’s ability to develop, produce or acquire programming that matches audience tastes and attracts high audience shares. Audience acceptance of a television or radio program represents a response not only to the television or radio program’s artistic components but also to critical review, promotion by the distributor, availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic climate, public tastes generally and other intangible factors, all of which could change rapidly and cannot be predicted with certainty. The Company’s viewing or listening audiences may not find all of the Company’s programming acceptable. There is a risk that some or all of the Company’s television and radio programming will not be successful, and that the Company’s programming library will lose its audience appeal more quickly than anticipated. If we are unable to produce or secure a steady supply of high-quality programming, or if we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in our viewers’ tastes by providing appropriate programming, our audience shares could be negatively affected. As a result, we may lose subscribers and subscription revenue and/or a significant portion of our market share and consequently our advertising revenues. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, if any of the programming we produce, commission or license does not achieve the audience share levels we anticipate, we may be required to write-off all or a portion of the carrying cost of such programming, and we could be forced to broadcast more expensive programming to maintain audience share, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The Company’s programming may become more difficult or expensive to acquire. The program content and program services the Company has licensed from third parties are subject to fixed term contracts which will expire at the end of the term or may terminate early. The Company cannot be sure that, upon the expiration of current contracts, program content or program services will continue to be available to it (whether by renewal or otherwise) on acceptable financial and technical terms (including encryption, territorial limitation and copy protection), or at all. Television programming is an important element of the Company’s operating costs. The cost of acquiring content attractive to the Company’s viewers, such as feature films, popular television series and formats, and sports programming rights, has increased, and may continue to increase, as a result of greater competition from existing and new television broadcasting channels and other competitors. The Company’s expenditure in respect of locally produced programming may also increase due to new laws and regulations mandating the broadcast of a greater number of locally produced programs, changes in audience tastes in favor of locally produced content in the Company’s operating markets, and competition for local talent. Any failure to acquire popular or locally produced programming on competitive terms and future increases in the cost of acquiring or producing such content could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of key talent could disrupt the Company’s business. The Company’s business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of its corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. The Company employs or contracts with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and also produces broadcast content with highly regarded directors, actors and other talent. These individuals are important to achieve audience endorsement of the Company’s programs, motion pictures and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with the Company or will retain their current appeal. If the Company fails to retain these individuals or if the Company’s 8 Table of Contents entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company has substantial future programming commitments that it may not be able to vary in response to a decline in advertising revenues, and as a result could experience material reductions in operating margins. Programming represents a significant expense, and at any given time we generally have substantial fixed commitments for the succeeding two to three years. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations.” Given the size of these commitments at any time, a reduction in our advertising revenues could adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations. We would have only limited ability to reduce our costs in the short-run in response to such developments. For example, the Company acquires syndicated programming rights under these multi-year commitments before it can be determined whether such programming will perform well in the Company’s operating markets. In the event any such programming does not attract adequate audience share, it may be also necessary to increase the Company’s expenditures by investing in additional programming as well as to write down the value of such underperforming programming, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s financial results are affected by exchange rate differences and exchange controls. The Company’s net sales are denominated in multiple currencies in addition to SEK (36% of total 2012 net sales), most significantly in Danish krona (21% of total 2012 net sales), and Norwegian krona (17% of total 2012 net sales). In addition, a significant proportion of the Company’s operating costs are similarly denominated in currencies other than SEK. For example, the Company acquires the majority of its programming content in U.S. dollars. Certain items in the Company’s balance sheet are also denominated in currencies other than the SEK. For example, the investment in CTC Media is accounted for in U.S. dollars. Furthermore, rights to broadcast sporting events can also, depending on the jurisdiction of the primary licensors of such events, be denominated in multiple currencies including British pounds, Euro and the Swiss franc. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which in the past had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s corporate treasury function hedges the major contractual future currency flows on a rolling twelve-month basis. Hedging positions are taken to protect the Group against the effects of transaction exposures in the contracted outflow for the main part of program acquisitions in U.S. dollars, British pounds until 2012, and, until the fall 2011, Swiss francs. Approximately 85 to 100% of the Group’s currency flows for programming rights in these currencies are hedged. Other transaction exposure is not hedged. Some of the Company’s operations are in developing markets where there is economic, political and legal uncertainty, risk of biased treatment and loss of business. Some of the Company’s revenue-generating operations are located in emerging markets in Central and Eastern Europe, Russia and Africa. These markets present different and higher risks compared to those posed by investments in developed markets. Unforeseen circumstances or changes in economic, political or social life in these markets may have a greater impact on the Company’s operations than those in developed markets. For example, the economic and political systems, legal and tax regimes, and standards of corporate governance and business practices in these regions continue to develop. Government policies may be subject to significant adjustments, especially in the event of a change in political leadership. These may result in social or political instability or disruptions, potential attempts at political influence on the media, inconsistent application of tax and legal regulations, arbitrary treatment before judicial or other regulatory authorities and other general business risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The legal framework to support a market economy remains new and in flux in certain developing markets and, as a result, the legal system can be characterized by inconsistencies between and among laws and governmental, ministerial and local regulations, orders, decisions, resolutions and other acts; substantial gaps in the regulatory structure resulting from the delay in adoption or absence of implementing regulations; limited judicial and administrative guidance on interpreting legislation; the relative inexperience of judges and courts in interpreting relatively new commercial legislation; a lack of judicial independence from political, social and commercial forces; 9 Table of Contents underfunding and understaffing of the court system; a high degree of discretion on the part of the judiciary and governmental authorities; and poorly developed bankruptcy procedures that are subject to abuse. Other potential risks inherent in markets with evolving economic and political environments include inadequate protection of foreign investments or intellectual property rights, exchange controls, higher tariffs and other levies as well as longer payment cycles. The relative level of development of the markets in which the Company operates and the influence of local political parties also present a potential for biased treatment of the Company before regulators or courts in the event of disputes involving the Company’s business in these markets. If such a dispute occurs, local regulators or courts might favor local interests over the Company’s interests. Ultimately, this could lead to the Company exiting or disposing of one or more of the Company’s business operations, and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Restrictions on direct or indirect foreign ownership or control of broadcasting companies could adversely affect the Company’s business or results of operations. The Company is incorporated and headquartered in Sweden, with significant operations in many other countries, including those in Central and Eastern Europe, Russia and Africa. The legislation of certain of these countries, for example Russia, imposes restrictions on direct or indirect foreign ownership or control of broadcasting companies. If any of these or other countries were to adopt new or stricter restrictions on direct or indirect foreign ownership or control of broadcasting companies, the Company could be obligated to divest or restructure a portion or all of the related foreign operations, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if any countries in which the Company may seek to operate in the future impose restrictions on foreign ownership or control of broadcasting companies, the Company’s ability to grow may be limited. Even if these countries do not adopt such restrictions, they may require regulatory approvals for any significant acquisitions by the Company, which could be time-consuming and the Company may thus lose out on acquisition opportunities to competitors. Any material limitation on the Company’s foreign investments or acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s acquisition strategy may not be successful. As part of its business strategy, the Company has pursued and may continue to pursue selective acquisitions, investments and strategic relationships. The Company has completed and may in the future seek such acquisitions, investments and strategic relationships in emerging markets in Central and Eastern Europe, Russia and Africa. In addition to country-specific risks, this strategy presents risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of potential acquisitions and investment opportunities, in integrating and managing newly acquired operations and improving their operating efficiency. In addition, such acquisitions and investments can divert the Company’s resources and consume significant management time. There can be no assurance that any desired strategic alliance, acquisition or investment can be made in a timely manner or on terms and conditions acceptable to the Company, nor can there be any assurance that the Company will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates, completing and financing additional acquisitions on favorable terms, or integrating the acquired businesses or assets into its existing operations. The Company’s ability to make acquisitions may depend on the availability of additional debt financing on acceptable terms and will be subject to compliance with the covenants contained in its debt instruments. The integration of new businesses poses significant risks to our existing operations, including additional and significant demands placed on our senior management, who are also responsible for managing our existing operations; increased overall operating complexity of our business, requiring greater personnel and other resources; difficulties of expanding beyond our core expertise; significant initial cash expenditures to acquire and integrate new businesses; contingent liabilities associated with acquired businesses; and incurrence of debt to finance acquisitions and related debt service costs. Additionally, the integration of new businesses may be difficult for a variety of reasons, including differing cultures or management styles, legal restrictions in the target’s jurisdiction, poor target records or internal controls. Furthermore, even if we are successful in integrating new businesses, expected synergies may not materialize, resulting in lower than expected profit margins. Each of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 Table of Contents The Company’s expansion into new territories may not be profitable. The Company has recently expanded and may continue selectively to expand into emerging markets in Central and Eastern Europe, Russia and Africa through organic growth or strategic acquisitions. Some of the newly added companies have a history of losses which negatively affects the Company’s results of operations, and there is no guarantee that these companies or any newly acquired companies will achieve profitability in the future. In 2009 and 2011, the Company also recorded material impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets relating to its operations in Bulgaria. Furthermore, international expansion involves significant investments, and investments in some regions can take a long period to generate an adequate return. In addition, if the Company expands into new international regions, some of its businesses will have only limited experience in operating and marketing their products and services in such regions and could be at a disadvantage compared to competitors with more experience in such regions. If the Company cannot generate adequate return or compete effectively for its international expansions, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company has only limited influence over some of the companies in which it holds equity stakes. MTG conducts some of its business through companies in which it does not hold a decisive stake, and through associated companies. MTG’s main associated company is CTC Media, Inc. in Russia, where MTG has a 37.9% shareholding. The Group also owns 50% of Raduga TV in Russia, and consolidates the business on a proportionate basis. Since the Company has limited control over these associated companies, there is an inherent risk that these companies may take actions adverse to the Company’s interests or otherwise fail to realize their full value. In addition, the Company holds a 50% stake in Prima TV in the Czech Republic. While the Company has management control of the operations of Prima TV (and consolidates fully its results), the Company does not have full control of Prima TV and there is a residual risk that Prima TV may take action adverse to the Company’s interest or fail to realize its full value. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that the Company depends upon to distribute its programming could adversely affect its business or results of operations. The Company uses satellite systems to transmit its program services to subscribers, cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Despite the back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of accidents, technical faults, disasters or other circumstances that impair uplinks, satellites, downlinks, fiber networks and Conditional Access Systems. Prolonged or repeated disruptions in our signals could lead to a loss of viewers, damage to our reputation and a reduction in our advertising revenues. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. Pursuant to the contractual arrangements with the satellite owner, if a transponder were to malfunction, the Company has the automatic right to receive capacity on a qualifying transponder on other satellites of the satellite owner, provided such capacity is available. However, if a disruption occurs, there is no guarantee that additional capacity on a qualifying transponder will be available in a timely fashion or at all and the Company may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a cost-efficient and timely manner or at all. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company accesses uplinks and downlinks, and satellite transponder capacity pursuant to contractual arrangements with third-party owners/operators of such communications channels. There is no guarantee that, upon expiration of the existing contractual arrangements, the Company will be able to renew or extend its access or secure alternative satellite transponder capacity at attractive terms or at all. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Competition for the limited satellite transponder capacity may also limit the Company’s ability to grow. If the Company cannot obtain additional channels on competitive terms, its ability to expand its operations could be restricted, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The Company is dependent on third-party operators to distribute much of its programming. The Company currently depends on a number of third-party cable, IPTV and mobile broadband operators for the distribution of a large percentage of its programming in each of its Northern European, and some of its Central and Eastern European markets as well as the Russian market. There can be no assurance that such third-party operators will continue to distribute the Company’s channels in the future. Any decrease in distribution via, or decrease in fees received by, these third-party operators could have a material negative impact on the Company’s advertising and pay-TV revenues, which in turn could negatively affect other businesses within the Company and could have an overall material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s business is vulnerable to significant changes in technology. The television broadcasting industry is affected by rapid innovations in technology. The implementation of new technologies and the introduction of broadcasting distribution systems other than analog terrestrial broadcasting, such as digital terrestrial broadcasting, direct-to-home cable and satellite distribution systems, the internet, video-on-demand and user-generated content sites, and the availability of television programming on portable digital devices, have changed consumer behavior by increasing the number of entertainment choices available to audiences. This has fragmented television audiences in more developed markets and could adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain audience share and attract advertisers as such technologies and broadcasting systems penetrate its operating markets. New technologies that enable viewers to choose when and what content to watch, as well as to fast-forward or skip advertisements, may also cause changes in consumer behavior that could negatively affect the Company’s businesses. The Company’ competitors may strengthen their positions by increasing the capacity of, or developing the means of delivering services favored by changes in consumer behavior. In addition, compression techniques and other technological developments may increase the number of channels broadcast in the Company’s operating markets and expand programming offerings to highly targeted audiences. Reductions in the cost of launching additional channels could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly targeted niche programming on various distribution platforms. To maintain its market share, the Company’s television broadcasting operations may be required to expend substantial financial and managerial resources on the implementation of new broadcasting technologies or distribution systems. Moreover, expansion of the broadcasting industry caused by technological innovation may fuel competition for audiences and advertising revenue as well as the competitive demand for programming. Any substantial further investment to address such competitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Technological developments may increase the threat of content piracy and signal theft and limit the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property rights. DTH access to the Company’s services is restricted through a combination of physical and logical access controls, including smartcards which the Company provides to its individual DTH customers. Unauthorized viewing and use of content may be accomplished by counterfeiting the smartcards or otherwise overcoming their security features. Developments in technology, including digital copying and file compressing, and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated materials. In addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology increase the risk of unauthorized use and distribution of DTH programming signals. The Company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both by itself and, in some instances, together with industry associations. There can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. Ineffective control over content piracy and signal theft may adversely affect the Company’s revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows and DTH programming and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Changes in the methods of measuring television audiences could reduce the Company’s audience share and ratings. The systems of audience measurement are different in the territories where the Company operates. Such systems are revised from time to time to reflect the changing demographic composition of the respective audiences. When changes to the system of audience measurement occur, the Company attempts to take steps when possible in respect of its programming and distribution to counteract the effects of such changes by adapting to the media consumption patterns of the redefined demographic composition. It cannot be assured that these steps will be adequate or effective, or that any further changes in the measurement systems will not result in a decrease in the Company’s measured audience shares or ratings, which could lead to a material decrease in its advertising revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company has a significant amount of intangible assets, including goodwill. If events or changes in circumstances reduce the fair value of those assets, we may be required to record impairment losses that could materially adversely impact our results of operations. The Company maintains substantial goodwill on its balance sheet which has an indefinite life and has been recorded following acquisitions of other companies. As at December 31, 2012, such goodwill amounted to SEK 2,866 million. The Company does not amortize goodwill but instead performs an impairment test annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Intangible assets which are amortized may similarly face a reduction in the fair value, causing impairment losses. The Company considers all current information in respect of determining the need for or calculating any impairment charge, including changes in the economy, decreases in our audience shares or ratings, increased competition or changes in the audience measurement system. If events or changes in the economic environment or other factors cause a reduction of the fair value of these assets, the Company may have to recognize impairment losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. For information about the Company’s impairment losses in 2011, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results.” The Company’s debt could adversely affect our financial health, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our indebtedness could have an adverse effect on us by: limiting our ability to borrow money for working capital, restructurings, capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions or other purposes, if needed, and increasing the cost of any of these borrowings; limiting our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and demand for new services; placing us at a disadvantage when compared to those of our competitors that have less debt; and making us more vulnerable than those of our competitors who have less debt to a downturn in our business, industry or the economy in general. Despite our indebtedness, we may still incur more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above. The Company is exposed to risks associated with disruptions in the financial markets. The Company is exposed to risks associated with disruptions in the financial markets, which can make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain financing. For example, adoption of new regulations, implementation of recently enacted laws or new interpretations or the enforcement of existing laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions, the financial markets or the financial services industry could result in a reduction in the amount of available credit or an increase in the cost of credit. In addition, disruptions in the financial markets can adversely affect the Company’s lenders, insurers, customers and other counterparties. For instance, the inability of the Company’s counterparties to obtain capital on acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under their agreements with the Company and lead to various negative effects on the Company, including business disruptions, decreased revenues and increases in bad debt write-offs. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents The Company is subject to financial covenants of its multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement. If the Company fails to comply, its debt obligations may be accelerated or credit may be withdrawn. Under the terms of the Company’s multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement, the Company must comply with certain financial covenants. If the Company breaches any covenant in the multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement, and fails to receive a waiver regarding such breach from its lenders or sign an amendment modifying such covenant, the Company’s debt obligations under the multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement may be accelerated or further credit may be withheld. Although it is currently projected that the Company would have sufficient cash on hand and cash from operations to repay in full its obligations under the multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement and continue to fund its operations, if such acceleration does occur, the Company’s liquidity would be negatively impacted and it may be required to implement more restrictive cash management measures. Moreover, it cannot be assured that the revenue and expense assumptions underlying this projection will prove to be accurate, particularly in light of the uncertain economic environment in which the Company is currently operating. For more information on the multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement and covenants contained therein, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The restrictive covenants under the Company’s credit facilities agreements may impose material restrictions on its business. The Company is subject to certain restrictive covenants under its multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement that limits or restrict its ability to, among other actions:  incur additional debt;  pay dividends and make distributions;  make certain loans;  create liens on assets;  transfer or sell assets outside the ordinary course of business; and  merge or consolidate. The restrictions under the multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement could make it more difficult for the Company to expand, finance its operations or engage in business activities that may be of interest to it, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s broadcasting licenses may not be renewed and may be subject to revocation, and the Company may have difficulties obtaining new licenses. The Company requires broadcasting and, in some cases, other operating licenses or authorizations from national regulatory authorities in the Company’s operating markets in order to conduct its broadcasting business. Certain of the Company’s broadcasting licenses will expire at various times within the operational planning horizon of five years. While the Company expects that its material licenses and authorizations will be renewed or extended as required to continue to operate the Company’s business, it cannot be guaranteed that this will occur or that such licenses will not be subject to revocation, particularly in markets where there is relatively greater political risk as a result of less developed political and legal institutions. The failure to comply in all material respects with the terms of broadcasting licenses or other authorizations, including the associated applications filed by the Company, may result in such licenses or other authorizations not being renewed or otherwise being terminated. Furthermore, no assurances can be given that renewals or extensions of existing licenses will be issued on the same terms as existing licenses. In addition, the Company cannot be certain that it will succeed in obtaining all requisite approvals and licenses in the future for its operations without the imposition of restrictions or conditions which may have an adverse 14 Table of Contents consequence to the Company, or that compliance issues will not be raised in respect of its operations, including those conducted prior to the date of this filing. Failure to obtain any requisite licenses, non-renewal or termination of any necessary broadcasting or operating licenses or authorizations, or material modification of the terms of any renewed licenses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business or results of operations. From time to time, the Company receives notices from third parties claiming that it infringes their intellectual property rights, such as copyright on soundtracks included in some of the Company’s programming. Such claims and lawsuits could require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be restricted preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. This could require the Company to change its business practices, adversely affect its ability to compete effectively and have an adverse impact on the Company’s business or results of operations. Even if the Company believes that the claims are without merit, defending against the claims can be time-consuming and costly and divert management’s attention and resources away from its business, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s business is regulated in many jurisdictions. Changes to laws, rules and regulations or interpretations thereof, and the outcome of court cases could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate its business and the results of its operations. The Company’s business is regulated in many jurisdictions. The regimes which regulate the Company’s business include both European Union (“EU”) and national laws and regulations related to broadcasting, telecommunications (including licensing requirements, access requirements, programming transmission and spectrum specifications), competition (antitrust), gambling and taxation. Any changes to these laws, rules and regulations, or other rules affecting the Company’s business, and the outcome of court cases could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate its business and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. On July 13, 2011, the European Commission (the “Commission” or “EC”) announced a consultation in the form of a Green Paper on the online distribution of audiovisual works in the EU entitled Opportunities and Challenges Towards a Digital Single Market. The Commission is currently expected to publish the follow-up to the Green Paper during 2013. Although the Directive will not become law for some time, any significant changes to the law affecting the licensing of content for internet distribution could lead to loss of some revenue associated with delivering exclusive or other content on the internet and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. On October 13, 2011, the European Court of Justice (the “ECJ”) passed judgment in the Airfield/Canal Digitaal v. SABAM and Airfield v. AGICOA cases relating to the issue of payment for the (re)broadcasting of television programs transmitted by broadcasting organizations. The ECJ found that satellite package providers should obtain authorization from the rights holders to rebroadcast television programs unless the agreement between the rights holders and the broadcasting organization which broadcasts their content includes the right for their programs to be communicated to the public through that satellite package provider. While the effect of the judgment remains uncertain, it may have the long term effect of requiring DTH operators, such as MTG, to pay additional remuneration in order to transmit protected works. Any additional payment by the Company of retransmission or other fees resulting from the ruling may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. On October 14, 2011, the ECJ delivered judgment in the joined cases of Football Association Premier League Ltd. and Others v. QC Leisure and Others and Karen Murphy v. Media Protection Services Ltd. The cases concern the issue of whether measures to enforce exclusive broadcasting rights are compatible with EU law. The main effect of the judgment is that national legislation cannot make it illegal to sell and use foreign decoder devices to access an encrypted satellite broadcasting service from another member state; the grant of exclusive satellite broadcasting licenses for the territory of one or more member states, which include a provision requiring the licensee not to supply decoding cards enabling viewing of Premier League games outside the licensed territory are contrary to 15 Table of Contents competition (anti-trust) law and communication to the public as defined in relevant legislation covered transmission, to the customers present in a public house. The judgment has had no significant impact on the Company’s current business, but it cannot be discounted that the judgment may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. During 2012, the EC proposed a number of new Regulations and Directives, including (i) a Directive on Collective Rights Management; (ii) a General Data Protection Regulation (revising the current Data Protection Directive); and (iii) a Directive on the Licensing of Orphan Works. To date, only the Directive on the Licensing of Orphan Works has been adopted and does not pose a risk to the Company’s business. While neither the Regulation nor Directive is currently anticipated to pose a significant risk to the Company’s business, there is no guarantee that any final legislation as adopted will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The directive on Collective Rights Management is currently expected to be published during 2013. It is possible that any such Directive may have a material adverse impact on elements of the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In May 2012, the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (the “BEREC”) published the results of its investigation into traffic management and other practices that restrict the use of the open internet in Europe. A consultation process has subsequently taken place with the findings due to be published during 2013. Any changes to the current laws, rules and regulations may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In 2013, instead of reopening the Copyright Directive, the EC will launch stakeholder dialogue on six issues of which cross-border portability of content and access to audiovisual works and cultural heritage are the most relevant to the Company’s business and which could pose a significant risk to Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In parallel, the Commission will complete relevant market studies, impact assessment and legal drafting with a view to a decision in 2014 whether to propose new legislation. In addition, the EC is also expected to publish a Green Paper on “Connected Devices/TV” in which it will request stakeholder feedback on the need to regulate media services available through internet-connected devices and which may ultimately lead to a revision of the Audio Visual Media Services Directive 2010. At this stage, it is unclear how great a risk these proposals pose to the Company’s business, however, any mandatory cross-border licensing scheme for content and/or an increased level of regulation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In mid-2013, the ECJ is expected to deliver judgment in Case C-607/11, a reference from a case in the English High Court of Justice (ITV Broadcasting Ltd. and Others v. TV Catchup Ltd.) in which TV Catchup, who operated a website that enabled the public to watch live UK television on computers, smartphones and games consoles, was held to have infringed UK broadcasters' copyrights in their broadcasts. ITV Broadcasting is seeking clarification, among the other things, as to whether rights owners can prohibit communication to the public of their content via third-party internet stream if that content has previously been authorized for communication via analogue means. An ECJ judgement in favor of TV Catchup would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operations as it would mean that European and national legislation could not be used to prevent unauthorized rebroadcast of the Company’s channels. This in turn would significantly reduce the value of the Company’s rights and would undermine the ability and incentive for the Company to continue to develop and promote its online streamed versions of its channels. It is currently anticipated that the Commission will, at some point during 2013, publish a Green Paper on the convergence of audiovisual media services. This will likely address issues that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations if implemented into EU law. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Shares Investment AB Kinnevik (“Kinnevik”) has effective control over the Company and this control may discourage or influence certain types of transactions. Kinnevik beneficially owns shares representing approximately 49.8% of the combined voting power of the Company’s outstanding Class A and B Shares. As a result, Kinnevik may have the ability to control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of the Company’s entire Board of Directors, the approval of any merger or consolidation and the sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. We cannot assure you that the interests of Kinnevik will coincide with the interests of the other holders of our shares. In 16 Table of Contents addition, Kinnevik’s voting power may have the effect of delaying or discouraging offers to acquire the Company because any such acquisition will generally require Kinnevik’s consent. It cannot be assured that Kinnevik will maintain all or any portion of its ownership of the Company. Disposition of a sufficient number of shares by Kinnevik could result in a change in control of the Company, and such a change in control could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. We have not yet completed our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are still an SEC registrant, we will be required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by the end of our 2013 fiscal year. We have not yet completed our evaluation as to whether our current internal control over financial reporting is broadly compliant with Section 404. We may not be compliant and may not be able to meet the Section 404 requirements in a timely manner. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and re-evaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. We also may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to be compliant with Section 404. If we fail, for any reason, to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, such failure could harm our reputation, operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. United States civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. We are incorporated under the laws of Sweden and substantial portions of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, most members of our Board of Directors and our officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such other persons residing outside the United States, or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts in any action. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon the U.S. laws. A judgment of a United States court would not be enforceable in Sweden against us or our Board of Directors and officers, but would be accepted on an evidential basis in a Swedish legal action. Swedish courts would have jurisdiction to try a claim against the Company as we have our registered seat and are domiciled in Sweden. Furthermore, Swedish courts would have jurisdiction to try a claim against certain members of our Board of Directors and our officers who are domiciled in Sweden. However, it is uncertain whether Swedish courts would consider themselves to have jurisdiction to try an action against us or such members of our Board of Directors or our officers on the merits, solely based upon U.S. federal securities law (this would need to be determined on a case by case basis). We are a Swedish public company with limited liability. The rights of our shareholders may be different from the rights of shareholders governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. We are a Swedish public limited liability company, and our Class A and Class B shares are traded on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, a regulated market. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association, the laws governing companies incorporated in Sweden as well as rules of self-regulation on the capital market. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our Board of Directors may be different from the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our Board of Directors is required by Swedish law to consider the interests of the Company, its shareholders, its employees, its creditors and other parties, in all cases with due observation of named laws and self-regulation on the Swedish capital market such as the principle of equal treatment, under which all shares shall enjoy equal right in the company. The principle of equal treatment is supported by the general clause, which prohibits the provision of an undue advantage to a shareholder or to any other person, to the disadvantage of the Company or any other shareholder. It is possible that some of these parties whose interest the Board of Directors is required to consider will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a shareholder. 17 Table of Contents We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, are not subject to U.S. proxy rules but are subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of a U.S. issuer. We will report under the Exchange Act as a non-U.S. company with foreign private issuer status. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act and although we follow Swedish laws and regulations with regard to such matters, we are exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that are applicable to U.S. public companies, including: (i) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act, (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time and (iii) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information, or current reports on Form 8-K, upon the occurrence of specified significant events. Foreign private issuers are required to file their annual report on Form 20-F by 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, while U.S. domestic issuers that are accelerated filers are required to file their annual report on Form 10-K within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from the Regulation Fair Disclosure, aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information. As a result of the above, even though we are contractually obligated and intend to make interim reports available to our stockholders, copies of which we are required to furnish to the SEC on a Form 6-K, and even though we are required to file reports on Form 6-K disclosing whatever information we have made or are required to make public pursuant to Swedish law or distribute to our stockholders and that is material to our company, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. We intend to terminate the registration of our Class B shares under the Exchange Act once the applicable conditions are met. The Company intends to terminate the registration of its Class B shares under the Exchange Act once the applicable conditions are met. If all conditions are met, the Company will be able, and intends, to terminate the registration of its Class B shares under the Exchange Act immediately following the first anniversary of the effectiveness of the registration statement filed on April 4, 2012. Once registration under the Exchange Act has been terminated, the Company will no longer be subject to the disclosure requirements of the Exchange Act and will not be required to file annual reports on Form 20-F and furnish reports on Form 6-K. The market price of our shares may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our shares in spite of our operation performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our shares could decrease significantly. You may be unable to resell your shares at or above the price at which they were purchased. 