Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Until recently, our regulator had imposed restrictions on our operations. From the latter half of 2004 until March 2007, we had been operating under close regulatory supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision because of various operational deficiencies that emerged during the tenure of our prior senior management. The operational deficiencies were primarily in the areas of internal controls and information systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, asset quality, and earnings. From October 2005 until March 2007, we had been operating under an Office of Thrift Supervision-accepted written compliance plan designed to remedy those deficiencies. In addition, among other supervisory directives, the Office of Thrift Supervision had imposed a restriction on the amount and type of loans that we could make. This lending restriction, along with the compliance costs we incurred, had an adverse effect on our operations. For more information, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Operating Strategy.” - 15 - - Our core earnings are weak, which we expect will continue for the foreseeable future. From 2004 through 2007 our net interest income has been insufficient to cover our non-interest expense and we have only been able to report a profit in periods in which we have had significant non-recurring income. In order to achieve consistent profitability, we intend to grow to a sufficient size to offset our expenses. However, we may not be able to successfully do so. In addition, if we open new branch offices, we may not be able to increase our earnings in the short term or within a reasonable period of time, if at all. Building and staffing new branch offices will increase our operating expenses. Numerous factors will affect our ability to open new branch offices, such as our ability to select suitable locations, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. It takes time for a new branch office to generate significant deposits and loan volume to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs and we may not be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits by expanding our branch network. Furthermore, we will incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company and from the implementation of new equity benefit plans, assuming they are approved by our shareholders. We may not be successful in significantly improving our earnings capacity in the near future, if at all. For more information on our operating results, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient, or a ready market is not available, to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. As of December 31, 2007, our allowance for loan losses was $1.5 million, representing 1.3% of total loans and 180.6% of nonperforming loans as of that date. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which may require additions to our allowance. Although we are unaware of any specific problems with our loan portfolio that would require any increase in our allowance at the present time, our allowance for loan losses may need to be increased further in the future due to our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Any material additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. In addition, our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provisions for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our concentrations in construction loans, including speculative construction loans, nonresidential real estate loans and land loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2007, $59.4 million, or 50.5% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of construction loans, nonresidential real estate loans and land loans, and $10.4 million, or 50.2% of the construction loan portfolio, consisted of speculative construction loans at that date. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of loan origination. We intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these loan types. All these loan types generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family mortgage loans because the repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operation or sale of the property and the income stream of the borrowers and such loans typically involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. In addition, many borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us so an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of non-payment and loss. Furthermore, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses through future charges to income as the portfolio of these types of loans grows, which would hurt our earnings. For more information about the credit risk we face, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Risk Management.” - 16 - - Fluctuations in interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, and thus subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Consequently, our results of operations can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risk. Changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationship between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets differently than the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in interest rate spread. In addition to affecting our profitability, changes in interest rates can impact the valuation of our assets and liabilities. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Substantially all of our loans are secured by real estate in Montgomery County, Tennessee, and the surrounding areas. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could significantly increase nonperforming loans, which would hurt our profits. Historically, Fort Campbell, a nearby U.S. Army installation, has played a significant role in the economy of our primary market area. Recent troop deployments to the Middle East have dampened economic activity and we would expect that any future deployments would have a similar effect. Furthermore, in recent periods, real estate values in our primary market area have increased significantly. A decline in real estate values could lead to some of our mortgage loans becoming inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to greater risk of loss. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could hurt our portfolio of construction loans, nonresidential real estate loans, and land loans and could reduce our ability to originate such loans. For a discussion of our primary market area, see Item 1, “Business—Market Area.” Strong competition within our primary market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our primary market area. See Item 1, “Business—Market Area” and “Business—Competition” for more information about our primary market area and the competition we face. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, First Federal’s chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Expenses from operating as a public company and from new stock-based benefit plans will continue to adversely affect our profitability. Our noninterest expenses are impacted as a result of the financial, accounting, legal and various other additional expenses usually associated with operating as a public company. We also recognize additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses stemming from the shares that are purchased or granted to employees and executives under the employee stock ownership plan and other new benefit plans. These additional expenses adversely affect our profitability. We recognize expenses for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts and, assuming that a long-term equity incentive plan is approved by our shareholders, will recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and stock options over the vesting period of awards made to recipients. - 17 - - Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 