Item 1A. Risk Factors. Revett Minerals is a speculative investment, for many reasons, and the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating it. In addition, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results could differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this report before investing. Environmental challenges could prevent us from ever developing Rock Creek. Our proposed development of Rock Creek has been challenged on environmental grounds by several regional and national environmental organizations at various times subsequent to the Forest Service’s issuance of an administrative record of decision approving our plan of operation in 2003. Some of these challenges are substantial and ongoing, and allege violations of the procedural and substantive requirements of a variety of federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to our permitting activities at Rock Creek, including ESA, NEPA, the 1872 Mining Law, the Federal Land Policy Management Act, the Wilderness Act, the National Forest Management Act, the Clean Water Act, the Forest Service Organic Act of 1897, and the Administrative Procedural Act. Although we have generally been successful in addressing most of the environmental challenges to our operations, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty how the pending challenges will be resolved. Rock Creek is potentially the more significant of our two mining assets. Continued court challenges to the record of decision and its accompanying biological opinion will inevitably delay us from proceeding with our planned development, and a successful challenge to either could prevent us from developing the project at all. If we are successful in defending these challenges, we still must comply with a number of requirements and conditions as development progresses, failing which we could be denied the ability to continue with our proposed activities at Rock Creek. (See the section of this report entitled “Legal Proceedings.”) Our reclamation liability at Troy could be substantial. In acquiring Troy, we agreed to indemnify ASARCO and hold it harmless from all of the liabilities associated with the reclamation, restoration and closure of the mine. This entailed our procurement of a $12.6 million performance bond to ensure that sufficient funds would be available to meet these obligations, and our subsequent agreement with the DEQ to increase the amount of the bond by $338,000 in December 2008. We are currently preparing a revised reclamation and restoration plan for Troy, which, when completed, may result in changes to the estimated reclamation and restoration costs and the amount of the performance bond. One of the key issues that has yet to be resolved is the extent to which we may be required to treat water from Troy after mining operations have ceased. Another issue is whether we are required to prepare and file an EIS in conjunction with any action taken with respect to our revised reclamation plan. We have advised the DEQ that we will fund the cost of an EIS, but believe the study should be postponed until such time as mining operations at Troy are actually projected to cease and more current information concerning the scope of any required remediation is known. We do not presently know whether our revised plan will actually result in increased reclamation and restoration costs at Troy, although it is probable that it will. Laws governing the closure of mining operations in Montana have become more stringent since Troy was first placed into production, and in the case of Troy, could include provisions requiring us to perpetually treat all of the discharged water from the mine. These factors could result in the imposition of a higher performance bond. Further, our reclamation and restoration liability at Troy is not limited by the amount of the performance bond itself. The bond serves only as security for the payment of these obligations; any substantial increase in actual costs over and above the amount of the bond would necessarily be borne by the Company. Payment of such costs could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition. We have a limited operating history and had losses in prior years. We have been engaged in commercial mining operations at Troy for just over three years and have not yet attained a significant level of earnings. In 2007, we earned approximately $0.9 million on revenues of approximately $39 million. In 2006, we incurred a loss of approximately $1.7 million on revenues of approximately $31.4 million, and in 2005 we incurred a loss of approximately $2.9 million on revenues of approximately $21.1 million. Our losses in 2006 and 2005 were partially attributable to the fact that production levels at Troy have not attained projected levels due to geotechnical problems, a shortage of skilled employees, problems in obtaining necessary repair parts for its equipment, and other factors common to underground hard rock mining operations. This ongoing shortfall in production has resulted in higher than anticipated operating costs. All of this is against the backdrop of higher than average copper and silver prices. 8 We may not be able to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis that we will continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2007, we had working capital of approximately $10.2 million, which may not be sufficient to meet our planned business objectives. Management recognizes that the Company will need to generate additional financial resources in order to meet these objectives. If the Company is not able to generate positive cash flows and profits or obtain adequate additional financing, it will be required to curtail operations and exploration activities. Furthermore, its inability to continue as a going concern would require it to restate its assets and liabilities on a liquidation basis, which could differ significantly from the going concern basis. We presently do not have the financial resources to develop Rock Creek. At December 31, 2007 we had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of approximately $18 million. Although we believe we may have sufficient cash to fund our evaluation program at Rock Creek, we do not have sufficient funds to allow us to develop the mine or begin mining operations should it prove feasible to do so. Moreover, we do not have any commitments for additional funding. The forecasted capital cost of constructing a mine at Rock Creek is currently estimated to be in the range of $300 to $350 million and could change materially. Our financial obligations to Kennecott are substantial. We incurred significant financial obligations to Kennecott in conjunction with our purchase of Troy and Rock Creek. At December 31, 2007, Revett Silver’s loan payable to Kennecott totaled $6.2 million, inclusive of accrued interest. Revett Minerals acquired this debt from Kennecott on February 21, 2008. In addition, the original purchase agreement with Kennecott gives Kennecott the right to exchange the 2,250,000 shares of Revett Silver common stock that it owns for a two percent net smelter return royalty from the sale of metals extracted from a defined portion of the Rock Creek project. This royalty obligation would commence the date the project achieves an 80 percent production rate and would continue until Kennecott has received payments, adjusted for inflation, of $8,000,000. The Rock Creek mineral resources are not equivalent to reserves. This report includes information concerning our estimated size of the mineral resource at Rock Creek and the amount of ore that may be produced from the project were it to be developed. Since no ore has been produced from Rock Creek, these estimates are preliminary in nature. And although we believe these amounts are significant, it does not mean the mineral resource can be economically mined. A mineral resource is not equivalent to a commercially mineable ore body or “proven reserves” or “probable reserves” under standards promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), principally because they are less certain and not necessarily amenable to economic development. We will not be able to determine whether Rock Creek contains a commercially mineable ore body until our evaluation program has been completed and we have obtained a final, economic and technical feasibility study that will include an analysis of the amount of ore that can be economically produced under then-prevailing market conditions. Investors are cautioned not to assume that our mineral resource estimates for Rock Creek will ever be converted into reserves. Non-U.S. persons owning our stock could be subject to U.S. taxes if we are treated as a United States company. Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), provides that, under certain instances, a non-U.S. corporation such as Revett Minerals could be treated as a U.S corporation for U.S. tax purposes. A consequence of this treatment for non-U.S. persons owning common stock of such a corporation is that they could be subject to U.S. tax on any gain they receive from the sale of such stock unless they qualify for a statutory exemption. Were these to occur, it is unlikely that this potential U.S. tax liability would be credited against the shareholder’s tax liability in his or her country of domicile, meaning that the shareholder would likely suffer double taxation on any such gain. Management does not believe Revett Minerals will be treated as a U.S. corporation for tax purposes, but cannot offer any assurance that such treatment would not occur. There is presently uncertainty surrounding the interpretation of Section 7874. The Internal Revenue Service could challenge Revett Minerals’ interpretation of the guidance that has been provided to date, or it could write implementing regulations that differ from that guidance. We could be treated as a passive foreign income company for tax purposes. Section 1297 of the Code provides that a foreign corporation such as Revett Minerals may be a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) if (a) 75% or more of its gross income is passive income or (b) the average percentage of the corporation’s assets (by value) held by it during the taxable year that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. (For purposes of Section 1297, “passive income” could include income derived by Revett Minerals from the operations of its majority-owned Revett Silver subsidiary.) If a U.S. taxpayer shareholder receives an “excess distribution” from a PFIC, 9 that distribution is generally subject to an interest charge unless the shareholder has elected to treat its interest in the corporation as an interest in a “qualified electing fund” or “QEF”, or makes an election to mark to market his or her PFIC stock at the close of each taxable year. An “excess distribution” for purposes of Section 1297 and regulations promulgated there-under is the amount of any current distribution that exceeds the normal level of a PFIC’s distributions. The purpose of the interest charge is to enable a recapture of the benefit of any U.S. income tax deferral to a U.S. shareholder while the investment income (presumably untaxed) was accumulated by the foreign investment company. There are other formidable risks to mining. We are subject to all of the risks inherent in the mining industry, including industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geologic formations, cave-ins, surface subsidence, flooding, power disruptions and periodic interruptions due to inclement weather. These risks could result in damage to or destruction of its mineral properties and production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays, monetary losses and legal liability. We do not maintain insurance covering environmental or other catastrophic liabilities, and we do not expect to procure such insurance unless and until it is economically feasible to do so. Insurance against environmental risks (including pollution or other hazards resulting from the disposal of waste products generated from exploration and production activities) is generally not available. In addition, we are subject to competition for new minerals properties, management and skilled miners from other mining companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do. We also have no control over changes in governmental regulation of mining activities, the speculative nature of mineral exploration and development, operating hazards, fluctuating metals prices, and inflation and other economic conditions. Copper and silver prices fluctuate markedly. Our operations are significantly influenced by the price of copper and silver. Copper and silver prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors that are beyond our control, such as inflation, the strength of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies, global and regional demand, commodity funds and speculators and the political and economic conditions of major producing countries throughout the world. Since 1990, world average copper prices fluctuated from a low of $0.71 per pound in 2002 to a high of $3.23 per pound in 2007, and world average annual silver prices fluctuated from a low of $3.95 per ounce in 1992 to a high of $13.38 per ounce in 2007. Currency fluctuations will affect our competitiveness. The price of copper and silver are denominated in U.S. dollars even though most production originates in countries whose currencies are independently valued. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the values of these host country currencies could affect the competitiveness of our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company is neither an accelerated filer nor a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, nor a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 