Item 1A. Risk Factors. Revett Minerals is a speculative investment, for many reasons, and the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating it. In addition, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results could differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this report before investing. We have had losses in prior years. We have been engaged in commercial mining operations at Troy for just over six years and only recently attained a significant level of earnings. In 2010 we had net income of $4.4 million from revenues of $47.0 million. In 2009 we incurred a loss of $5.0 million on revenues of $33.1 million. In 2008 we incurred a loss of $6.7 million on revenues of $39.5 million, and in 2007 we earned $0.9 million on revenues of $38.9 million. Our loss in 2008 and 2009 was primarily due to significantly lower metal prices during the last half of 2008 and the first half of 2009. Copper and silver prices fluctuate markedly. Our operations are significantly influenced by the price of copper and silver. Copper and silver prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors that are beyond our control, such as the strength of the United States dollar, global and regional industrial demand, and the political and economic conditions of major producing countries throughout the world. Since 1990, world average copper prices have fluctuated from a low of $0.71 per pound in 2002 to a high of $3.42 per pound in 2010, and world average annual silver prices have fluctuated from a low of $3.95 per ounce in 1992 to a high of $20.16 per ounce in 2010. As at December 31, 2010, we have contracts outstanding to sell 5.2 million pounds of copper at an average price of $3.55 per pound and 360,000 ounces of silver at an average price of $19.00. These contracts mature at various dates from March 2011 to February 2012. There are other formidable risks to mining. We are subject to all of the risks inherent in the mining industry, including industrial accidents, labor disputes, environmental related issues, unusual or unexpected geologic formations, cave-ins, surface subsidence, flooding, power disruptions and periodic interruptions due to inclement weather. These risks could result in damage to or destruction of our mineral properties and production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays, monetary losses and legal liability. In addition, we are subject to competition for new minerals properties, management and skilled miners from other mining companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do. We also have no control over changes in governmental regulation of mining activities, the speculative nature of mineral exploration and development, operating hazards, fluctuating metal prices and inflation and other economic conditions. Environmental challenges could prevent us from ever developing Rock Creek. Our proposed development of Rock Creek has been challenged on environmental grounds by several regional and national environmental organizations at various times subsequent to the Forest Service’s issuance of a Record of Decision approving our plan of operation in 2003. Some of these challenges are substantial and ongoing, and allege violations of the procedural and substantive requirements of a variety of federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to our permitting activities at Rock Creek, including ESA, NEPA, the 1872 Mining Law, the Federal Land Policy Management Act, the Wilderness Act, the National Forest Management Act, the Clean Water Act, the Forest Service Organic Act of 1897 and the Administrative Procedural Act. Although we have generally been successful in addressing most of the environmental challenges to our operations, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty how the pending challenges will be resolved. Rock Creek is potentially the more significant of our two mining assets. Continued court challenges to the Record of Decision and its accompanying biological opinion have delayed us from proceeding with our planned development. If we are successful in defending these challenges, we still must comply with a number of requirements and conditions as development progresses, failing which we could be denied the ability to continue with our proposed activities at Rock Creek. (See the section of this report entitled “Legal Proceedings.”) Our reclamation liability at Troy could be substantial. In acquiring Troy, we agreed to indemnify ASARCO and hold it harmless from all of the liabilities associated with the reclamation, restoration and closure of the mine. This entailed our procurement of a $12.9 million performance bond. We have submitted a revised reclamation plan for Troy to the Montana DEQ and they have been in the process of completing environmental analysis in cooperation with the Forest Service. The Agencies have given notice that an Environmental Impact Statement will be completed and subsequently changes may be made to the estimated reclamation costs and the amount of the performance bond. One of the key issues yet to be resolved is the extent to which we may be required to treat water from Troy after mining operations have ceased. We do not presently know whether our revised plan will actually result in increased reclamation costs at Troy. Laws governing the closure of mining operations in Montana have become more stringent since Troy was first placed into production, and could include provisions requiring us to perpetually treat all of the discharged water from the mine. These factors could result in the imposition of a higher performance bond. Further, our reclamation liability at Troy is not limited by the amount of the performance bond itself. The bond serves only as security for the payment of these obligations; any substantial increase in actual costs over and above the $16.8 million maximum allowed under the current surety agreement would necessarily be borne by the Company. Payment of such costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 6 We presently do not have the financial resources to develop Rock Creek. At December 31, 2010 we had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $8.8 million. We do not have sufficient cash to fund our evaluation program at Rock Creek and we do not have sufficient funds to allow us to develop a mine or begin mining operations should it prove feasible to do so. The estimated capital cost of constructing a mine at Rock Creek is in the range of $250 to $275 million and could change materially. The Rock Creek mineral resources are not equivalent to reserves. This report includes information concerning the estimated size of our mineral resource at Rock Creek and the amount of ore that may be produced from the project were it to be developed. Since no ore has been produced from Rock Creek, these estimates are preliminary in nature. This report also includes information concerning mineral resources at Troy. Although we believe these amounts are significant, it does not mean the mineral resource can be economically mined. A mineral resource is not equivalent to a commercially mineable ore body or “proven reserves” or “probable reserves” under standards promulgated by the SEC, principally because they are less certain and not necessarily amenable to economic development. We will not be able to determine whether Rock Creek contains a commercially mineable ore body until our evaluation program has been completed and we have obtained a final, economic and technical feasibility study that will include an analysis of the amount of ore that can be economically produced under then-prevailing market conditions. United States investors are cautioned that the terms “measured mineral resources”, “indicated mineral resources” and “inferred mineral resources” are not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of mineral resources involves greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic feasibility than the estimation of proven and probable reserves. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that mineral resources will ever be converted into reserves. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company is neither an accelerated filer nor a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, nor a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Company does not have any unresolved staff comments outstanding at December 31, 2010. 