Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and throughout 2008 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation the general economic downturn will continue at least into 2009. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many financial institutions due to a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. There is potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. Our financial performance, in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon on the business environment in the markets where we operate. Overall, during 2008, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide and it is expected that such business environment will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. While the business environment in Montgomery County, Tennessee, and the markets in which we operate have been less adverse than in the United States as a whole, a continued overall economic downturn could eventually have a negative affect in our market area. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, results of operations and our financial condition. Our core earnings are weak, which we expect will continue for the foreseeable future. During 2008 our net interest income was marginally sufficient to cover our non-interest expense. From 2004 through 2007 our net interest income was insufficient to cover our non-interest expense and we were only able to report a profit in periods in which we had significant non-recurring income. In order to achieve consistent profitability, we intend to grow to a sufficient size to offset our expenses. However, we may not be able to successfully do so. In addition, when we open new branch offices, we may not be able to increase our earnings in the short term or within a reasonable period of time, if at all. Building and staffing new branch offices will increase our operating expenses. Numerous factors affect our ability to open new branch offices, such as our ability to select suitable locations, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. It takes time for a new branch office to generate significant deposits and loan volume to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs and we may not be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits by expanding our branch network. Furthermore, we will continue to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company and from the implementation of new equity benefit plans for which we began incurring expenses in August of 2008. We may not be successful in significantly improving our earnings capacity in the near future, if at all. For more information on our operating results, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 17 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient, or a ready market is not available, to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. As of December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan losses was $2.18 million, representing 1.2% of total loans and 262.0% of nonperforming loans as of that date. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which may require additions to our allowance. Although we are unaware of any specific problems with our loan portfolio that would require any increase in our allowance at the present time, our allowance for loan losses may need to be increased further in the future due to our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Any material additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. In addition, our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provisions for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our concentrations in construction loans, including speculative construction loans, nonresidential real estate loans and land loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2008, $92.8 million, or 51.9% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of construction loans, nonresidential real estate loans and land loans, and $11.7 million, or 48.3% of the construction loan portfolio, consisted of speculative construction loans at that date. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of loan origination. Although our origination of these types of loans has slowed as the local economy has slowed, over time, we intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these loan types. These loan types expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family mortgage loans because the repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operation or sale of the property and the income stream of the borrowers and such loans typically involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. In addition, many borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us so an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of non-payment and loss. Furthermore, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses through future charges to income as the portfolio of these types of loans grows, which would hurt our earnings. For more information about the credit risk we face, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Risk Management.” Noncore funding represents a large component of our funding base. In addition to the traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposits, we utilize several noncore funding sources, such as Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati advances, federal funds purchased and other sources. We utilize these noncore funding sources to fund our ongoing operations and growth. The availability of these noncore funding sources are subject to broad economic conditions and, as such, the pricing on these sources may fluctuate significantly and/or be restricted at any point in time, thus impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional liquidity. 18 In recent months, several FHLB institutions have announced impairment charges relating to mortgage securities and other assets and that their capital positions have deteriorated to the point that they may suspend dividend payments to their members. We are a member of the FHLB of Cincinnati which continues to pay dividends. However, should financial conditions continue to weaken, certain FHLB institutions (including FHLB of Cincinnati) may have to suspend dividend payments or curtail advances to member institutions. Should the FHLB system deteriorate to the point of not being able to fund future advances to banks, including First Federal, this would place increased pressure on other wholesale funding sources. Fluctuations in interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, and thus subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Consequently, our results of operations can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risk. Changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationship between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets differently than the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in interest rate spread. In addition to affecting our profitability, changes in interest rates can impact the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Future FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. In February 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim final rule imposing a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 20 basis points of insured deposits as of June 30, 2009. The assessment will be collected on September 30, 2009. The special assessment will negatively impact the Company’s earnings. If the special assessment had been based on the Company’s assessable deposits at December 31, 2008, the special assessment would have equaled approximately $380,000. In addition, the interim rule would also permit the FDIC to impose an emergency special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. On March 5, 2009, the Chairman of the FDIC announced that the FDIC intends to lower the special assessment from 20 basis points to 10 basis points. The decrease in the special assessment is contingent upon passage of legislation of the U. S. Congress. The assessment rates, including the special assessment, are subject to change at the discretion of the Board of Directors of the FDIC. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will further hurt the Company’s earnings. We could be subject to reinvestment risk related to the Federal Reserve Program to Purchase Mortgage-Backed Securities Backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. On November 25, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced that it will initiate a program to purchase $100.0 billion in direct obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks and $500.0 billion in mortgage-backed securities backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”). The Federal Reserve stated that its actions are intended to reduce the cost and increase the availability of credit for the purchase of houses, which in turn should support housing markets and foster improved conditions in financial markets more generally. The purchases of direct obligations began during the first week of December 2008 and the purchases of mortgage-backed securities began in early January 2009. While the Federal Reserve’s program to purchase mortgage-backed securities could cause an increase in the price of agency securities, which would positively impact our book value, it could increase call and prepayment risk on callable agencies and mortgage-backed securities and the cash flow would be subject to reinvestment risk. Call and prepayment risk are the cash flow risk resulting from the possibility that a bond is redeemed before maturity. Reinvestment risk is the result of the cash flow interest or the payment of principal of a security not being reinvested at a similarly attractive rate of return. The resulting use of funds could have a negative impact on net interest margin. Our balance sheet leverage transactions are subject to reinvestment and interest rate risks. On April 30, 2008 we entered into two balance sheet leverage transactions, utilizing structured repurchase agreements, which totaled $35 million. $25 million of the borrowings have call options ranging from two to three years after origination, with final maturities ranging from five to ten years if they are not called. Collateral for the borrowings consists of U. S. Agency pass-through Mortgage Backed Securities (the “Securities”). Borrowing rates as of the report date are substantially lower than when the leverage transaction was originated. If borrowing rates remain at or near current low levels for two to three years it is possible that the structured repurchase agreement borrowings will not be called and the bank will be paying above market rates for borrowings for an extended period of time. Additionally, the recent decrease in mortgage rates has increased the amount of mortgages being refinanced. Prepayment of the mortgages that are collateral for the securities used in the structured repurchase agreement could require us to substitute additional collateral if the minimum collateral level is not maintained. The Bank may not have suitable collateral in the portfolio to substitute at the time and would have to purchase additional securities at market prices. Additional purchases would likely be reinvested in much lower yielding investments. Both factors discussed here could contribute to a mismatch in terms of the effective duration of both the borrowings and the Securities and would negatively impact the anticipated spread on the leverage transaction. 19 A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Substantially all of our loans are secured by real estate in Montgomery County, Tennessee, and the surrounding areas. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could significantly increase nonperforming loans, which would hurt our profits. Historically, Fort Campbell, a nearby U.S. Army installation, has played a significant role in the economy of our primary market area. Recently, several thousand troops returned home from deployments to the Middle East. However, we would expect that any future deployments would dampen economic activity. Furthermore, a decline in real estate values could lead to some of our mortgage loans becoming inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to greater risk of loss. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could hurt our portfolio of construction loans, nonresidential real estate loans, and land loans and could reduce our ability to originate such loans. For a discussion of our primary market area, see Item 1, “Business—Market Area.” Strong competition within our primary market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our primary market area. See Item 1, “Business—Market Area” and “Business—Competition” for more information about our primary market area and the competition we face. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, First Federal’s chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or other stock exchanges. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 20 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 