ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves risk. Persons investing in our securities should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report and other filings that we make from time to time with the SEC, including our consolidated and combined financial statements and accompanying notes. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could also be adversely affected by additional factors that apply to all companies generally, as well as other risks that are not currently known to us or that we currently view to be immaterial. In any such case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your original investment. While we attempt to mitigate known risks to the extent we believe to be practicable and reasonable, we can provide no assurance, and we make no representation, that our mitigation efforts will be successful. Risks Related to Our Business Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or performance of the investments that we manage or by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could negatively impact our net income and cash flow and adversely affect our financial condition. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions or events throughout the world, such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls and national and international political circumstances (including 36 Table of Contents wars, terrorist acts or security operations). For example, the unprecedented turmoil in the global financial markets during 2008 and 2009 provoked significant volatility of securities prices, contraction in the availability of credit and the failure of a number of companies, including leading financing institutions, and had a material adverse effect on our businesses. While the adverse effects of that period have abated to a significant degree, there continue to be lingering signs of economic weakness, characterized by low levels of growth and high levels of unemployment and governmental deficits in major markets including the United States and Europe. In addition, while volatility has declined in 2013, global financial markets have experienced periods of significant volatility in particular following the downgrade by Standard & Poor's on August 5, 2011 of the long-term credit rating of U.S. Treasury debt from AAA to AA+. Furthermore while a number of policy actions have been implemented with respect to debt and banks in a number of European countries, Europe continues to experience negative growth and ongoing austerity. Deleveraging in the developed world is continuing and likely to persist in the near-term. In the U.S., while federal lawmakers passed certain interim measures to fund the federal government in October 2013, a failure to reach a longer term budget agreement could lead to another federal government shut down or otherwise adversely impact the financial markets. In the spring of 2013, concerns about the Federal Reserve's plan to scale back its monetary stimulus plan later in 2013 caused investors to sell off significant amounts of stocks and bonds, resulting in the rapid increase in interest rates. In the fourth quarter of 2013 the Federal Reserve announced a plan to gradually scale down its Large Scale Asset Purchase program commonly referred to as Quantitative Easing; this and further changes in monetary policy could impair the economic recovery in the U.S. and lead to increased volatility. Furthermore, while U.S. financial institutions have seen recent improvements, global financial institutions have generally not yet provided debt financing in amounts and on terms commensurate with what they provided prior to 2008. Such market and economic conditions are outside our control and may affect the level and volatility of securities prices and the liquidity and the value of our investments. In addition, we may not be able to or may choose not to manage our exposure to these conditions and/or events. For example, as of March 31, 2009, the date of the lowest aggregate valuation of our private equity funds during the most recent downturn, the investments in the private equity funds contributed to us in the KPE Transaction were marked down to 67% of original cost, and values across all geographies declined. For example, as of March 31, 2009, the European Fund II, European Fund III, 2006 Fund and Asian Fund had multiples of invested capital of 0.5x, 0.6x, 0.7x and 0.8x, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, these same funds are each valued at multiples of invested capital of 1.5x, 1.4x, 1.6x and 1.8x, respectively. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in net income relating to changes in market and economic conditions. Unfavorable market conditions may reduce opportunities for our funds to make, exit and realize value from their investments. For example, when financing is not available, it is difficult for potential buyers to raise sufficient capital to purchase assets in our funds' portfolios. Consequently, we may earn lower than expected returns on investments, which could cause us to realize diminished or no carried interest. In addition, we may not be able to find suitable investments for the funds to effectively deploy capital, which could adversely affect our ability to raise new funds because we can generally only raise capital for a successor fund following the substantial and successful deployment of capital from the existing fund. In the event of poor performance by existing funds or during periods of unfavorable fundraising conditions, pressures by fund investors for lower fees, different fee sharing arrangements for transaction or other fees, and other concessions (for example, the inclusion of performance hurdles that require us in our newer funds, such as North America Fund XI and Asian Fund II, to generate a specified return on investment prior to our right to receive carried interest) will likely continue and could increase. The outcome of such negotiations could result in our agreement to terms that are materially less favorable to us than for prior funds we have managed. In the circumstances described above, successor funds raised by us are also likely in many instances to be smaller than our comparable 37 Table of Contents predecessor funds. Fund investors may also seek to redeploy capital away from certain of our credit or other non-private equity investment vehicles, which permit redemptions on relatively short notice, in order to meet liquidity needs or invest in other asset classes. Any of these developments could adversely affect our future revenues, net income, cash flow, financial condition or ability to retain our employees. See "—Our inability to raise additional or successor funds could have a material adverse impact on our business" and "—Our investors in future funds may negotiate to pay us lower management fees and the economic terms of our future funds may be less favorable to us than those of our existing funds, which could adversely affect our revenues." During periods of difficult market or economic conditions or slowdowns (which may be across one or more industries, sectors or geographies), companies in which we have invested may experience decreased revenues, financial losses, credit rating downgrades, difficulty in obtaining access to financing and increased funding costs. These companies may also have difficulty in expanding their businesses and operations or be unable to meet their debt service obligations or other expenses as they become due, including amounts payable to us. Negative financial results in our funds' portfolio companies may result in lower investment returns for our investment funds, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. To the extent the operating performance of such portfolio companies (as well as valuation multiples) deteriorate or do not improve, our funds may sell those assets at values that are less than we projected or even at a loss, thereby significantly affecting those funds' performance and consequently our operating results and cash flow and resulting in lower or no carried interest being paid to us. Adverse conditions may also increase the risk of default with respect to private equity, credit and other equity investments that we manage or the abandonment or foreclosure of our real asset investments. Even if economic and market conditions do improve broadly, adverse conditions in particular sectors may also cause our performance to suffer. Finally, low interest rates related to monetary stimulus and economic stagnation may negatively impact expected returns on all types of investments as the demand for relatively higher return assets increases and the supply decreases. Changes in the debt financing markets may negatively impact the ability of our investment funds and their portfolio companies to obtain attractive financing for their investments or refinance existing debt and may increase the cost of such financing if it is obtained, which could lead to lower-yielding investments and potentially decrease our net income. In the event that our funds are unable to obtain committed debt financing for potential acquisitions or can only obtain debt at an increased interest rate or on unfavorable terms, our funds may have difficulty completing otherwise profitable acquisitions or may generate profits that are lower than would otherwise be the case, either of which could lead to a decrease in the investment income earned by us. Any failure by lenders to provide previously committed financing can also expose us to potential claims by sellers of businesses which we may have contracted to purchase. Similarly, our portfolio companies regularly utilize the corporate debt markets in order to obtain financing for their operations. To the extent that credit markets render such financing difficult to obtain or more expensive, this may negatively impact the operating performance of those portfolio companies and, therefore, the investment returns on our funds. In addition, to the extent that conditions in the credit markets impair the ability of our portfolio companies to refinance or extend maturities on their outstanding debt, either on favorable terms or at all, the operating performance of those portfolio companies may be negatively impacted, which could impair the value of our investment in those portfolio companies and lead to a decrease in the investment income earned by us. In some cases, the inability of our portfolio companies to refinance or extend maturities may result in the inability of those companies to repay debt at maturity and may cause the companies to sell assets, undergo a recapitalization or seek bankruptcy protection, which would also likely impair the value of our investment and lead to a decrease in investment income earned by us. 38 Table of Contents Adverse economic and market conditions may adversely affect our liquidity position, which could adversely affect our business operations in the future. We expect that our primary liquidity needs will consist of cash required to: •continue to grow our business, including seeding new strategies and funding our capital commitments made to existing and future funds, co-investments and any net capital requirements of our capital markets companies; •service debt obligations, as well as any contingent liabilities that may give rise to future cash payments; •fund cash operating expenses; •pay amounts that may become due under our tax receivable agreement with KKR Holdings; •make cash distributions in accordance with our distribution policy; •underwrite commitments within our capital markets business; and •acquire additional principal assets, including other investment advisory and broker-dealer businesses. These liquidity requirements are significant and, in some cases, involve capital that will remain invested for extended periods of time. As of December 31, 2013, we have approximately $1.2 billion of remaining unfunded capital commitments to our investment funds. Our commitments to our funds will require significant cash outlays over time, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from realizations of investments to fund them. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we had $1.0 billion of borrowings outstanding under our credit facilities and debt securities and $2.2 billion of cash and short-term investments. While we have long-term committed financings with substantial facility limits, the terms of those facilities will expire in 2016 and 2017 and our senior notes become due in 2020 and 2043 (see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity"), and any borrowings thereunder will require refinancing or renewal, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or issuing equity. Depending on credit or other market conditions, we may not be able to renew all or part of these borrowings or find alternate sources of financing on commercially reasonable terms and we may not be able to raise equity. In addition, the underwriting commitments for our capital markets business may require significant cash obligations, and these commitments may also put pressure on our liquidity. The holding company for our capital markets business has entered into a credit agreement that provides for revolving borrowings of up to $500 million, which can be used in connection with our capital markets business, including placing and underwriting securities offerings. To the extent we commit to buy and sell an issue of securities in firm commitment underwritings or otherwise, we may be required to borrow under our credit agreement for our capital markets business to fund such obligations, which, depending on the size and timing of the obligations, may limit our ability to enter into other underwriting arrangements or similar activities, service existing debt obligations or otherwise grow our business. Regulatory capital requirements may also limit the ability of our broker-dealer subsidiaries to participate in underwriting or other transactions or to allocate our capital more efficiently across our businesses. In addition, in connection with our acquisitions of KKR Prisma and a minority interest in Nephila, we may be obligated to make future deferred purchase price payments based on the respective performance of these businesses. In the event that our liquidity requirements were to exceed available liquid assets for the reasons specified above or for any other reason, we could be forced to sell assets or seek to raise debt or equity capital on unfavorable terms. 39 Table of Contents The "clawback" or "net loss sharing" provisions in our governing agreements may give rise to a contingent obligation that may require us to return or contribute amounts to our funds and fund investors. The partnership documents governing our carry-paying funds, including funds relating to private equity, mezzanine, infrastructure, energy, real estate, direct lending and special situations investments, generally include a "clawback" provision that, if triggered, may give rise to a contingent obligation requiring the general partner to return amounts to the fund for distribution to the fund investors at the end of the life of the fund. Under a clawback obligation, upon the liquidation of a fund, the general partner is required to return, typically on an after-tax basis, previously distributed carry to the extent that, due to the diminished performance of later investments, the aggregate amount of carry distributions received by the general partner during the term of the fund exceed the amount to which the general partner was ultimately entitled, including the effects of any performance thresholds. Excluding carried interest received by the general partners of funds that were not contributed to us in the KPE Transaction, as of December 31, 2013, no carried interest was subject to this clawback obligation, assuming that all applicable carry paying funds were liquidated at their December 31, 2013 fair values. Had the investments in such funds been liquidated at zero value, the clawback obligation would have been $1,350.7 million. Certain private equity funds that were contributed to us in the KPE Transaction in 2009 also include a "net loss sharing provision." Upon the liquidation of an investment vehicle to which a net loss sharing obligation applies, the general partner is required to contribute capital to the vehicle, to fund 20% of the net losses on investments. In these vehicles, such losses would be required to be paid by us to the fund investors in those vehicles in the event of a liquidation of the fund regardless of whether any carried interest had previously been distributed, and a greater share of investment losses would be allocable to us relative to the capital that we contributed to it as general partner. Based on the fair market values as of December 31, 2013, there would have been no net loss sharing obligation. If the vehicles were liquidated at zero value, the net loss sharing obligation would have been approximately $496.4 million as of December 31, 2013. Prior to the KPE Transaction in 2009, certain of our principals who received carried interest distributions with respect to certain private equity funds contributed to us had personally guaranteed, on a several basis and subject to a cap, the contingent obligations of the general partners of such private equity funds to repay amounts to fund investors pursuant to the general partners' clawback obligations. The terms of the KPE Transaction require that our principals remain responsible for any clawback obligations relating to carry distributions received prior to the KPE Transaction, up to a maximum of $223.6 million. Through investment realizations, this amount has been reduced to $217.8 million as of December 31, 2013. Using valuations as of December 31, 2013, no amounts are due with respect to the clawback obligation required to be funded by our principals. Carry distributions arising subsequent to the KPE Transaction may give rise to clawback obligations that may be allocated generally to us and our principals who participate in the carry pool. Unlike the clawback obligation, we will be responsible for amounts due under a net loss sharing obligation and will indemnify our principals for any personal guarantees that they have provided with respect to such amounts. In addition, guarantees of or similar arrangements relating to clawback or net loss sharing obligations in favor of third party investors in an individual investment partnership by entities we own may limit distributions of carried interest more generally. Our earnings and cash flow are highly variable due to the nature of our business and we do not intend to provide earnings guidance, each of which may cause the value of interests in our business to be volatile. Our earnings are highly variable from quarter to quarter due to the volatility of investment returns of most of our funds and other investment vehicles and our principal assets and the fees earned from our businesses. We recognize earnings on investments in our funds based on our allocable share of realized and unrealized gains (or losses) reported by such funds and for certain of our recent funds, 40 Table of Contents when a performance hurdle is achieved. A decline in realized or unrealized gains, a failure to achieve a performance hurdle or an increase in realized or unrealized losses, would adversely affect our net income. Fee income, which we recognize when contractually earned, can vary due to fluctuations in AUM, the number of investment transactions made by our funds, the number of portfolio companies we manage, the fee provisions contained in our funds and other investment products and transactions by our capital markets business. Fees for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013 were $723.6 million, $568.4 million and $762.5 million, respectively. We may create new funds or investment products or vary the terms of our funds or investment products (for example our newer funds include performance hurdles), which may alter the composition or mix of our income from time to time. We may also experience fluctuations in our results from quarter to quarter, including our revenue and net income, due to a number of other factors, including changes in the values of our funds' investments, changes in the amount of distributions or interest earned in respect of investments, changes in our operating expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition and general economic and market conditions. Net income (loss) attributable to KKR & Co. L.P. for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013 was $1.9 million, $560.8 million and $691.2 million, respectively. Such fluctuations may lead to variability in the value of interests in our business and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in future periods. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady growth in net income and cash flow on a quarterly basis, which could in turn lead to large adverse movements in the value of interests in our business. The timing and receipt of carried interest from our investment funds are unpredictable and will contribute to the volatility of our cash flows. For example, with respect to our private equity funds, carried interest is distributed to the general partner of a private equity fund with a clawback or net loss sharing provision only after all of the following are met: (i) a realization event has occurred (e.g., sale of a portfolio company, dividend, etc.); (ii) the vehicle has achieved positive overall investment returns since its inception, in excess of performance hurdles where applicable; and (iii) with respect to investments with a fair value below cost, cost has been returned to fund investors in an amount sufficient to reduce remaining cost to the investments' fair value. Carried interest payments from investments depend on our funds' performance and opportunities for realizing gains, which may be limited. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities, to raise all the funds needed to make an investment and then to realize the cash value (or other proceeds) of an investment through a sale, public offering or other exit. To the extent an investment is not profitable, no carried interest shall be received from our funds with respect to that investment and, to the extent such investment remains unprofitable, we will only be entitled to a management fee on that investment. Furthermore, certain vehicles and separately managed accounts may not provide for the payment of carry at all. Even if an investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years before any profits can be realized in cash. We cannot predict when, or if, any realization of investments will occur. In addition, if finance providers, such as commercial and investment banks, make it difficult for potential purchasers to secure financing to purchase companies in our investment funds' portfolio, it may decrease potential realization events and the potential to earn carried interest. A downturn in the equity markets would also make it more difficult to exit investments by selling equity securities. If we were to have a realization event in a particular quarter, the event may have a significant impact on our cash flows during the quarter that may not be replicated in subsequent quarters. A decline in realized or unrealized gains, or an increase in realized or unrealized losses, would adversely affect our investment income, which could further increase the volatility of our quarterly results. In addition, with respect to certain of the funds that we advise, such as hedge funds, fund of funds and KFN, we are entitled to incentive fees that are generally paid annually, semi-annually or quarterly if the net asset value of a fund has increased over a certain pre-determined hurdle rate or a specified high-water mark. These funds, but not KFN, also have "high-water mark" provisions whereby if the funds have experienced losses in prior periods, we will not be able to earn incentive fees with respect to a fund investor's account until the net asset value of the fund investor's account exceeds the highest 41 Table of Contents period end value on which incentive fees were previously paid. The incentive fees we earn are therefore dependent on the net asset value of these funds or vehicles, which could lead to volatility in our quarterly results and cash flow. Fees, including incentive fees, from KFN will be eliminated upon the completion of the KFN merger on a segment basis. The timing and receipt of carried interest also varies with the life cycle of our funds. Our carry paying funds that have completed their investment periods and are able to realize mature investments, referred to as being in a harvesting period, are more likely to make larger distributions than our carrying paying funds that are in their fund raising or investment periods that precede the harvesting period. During times when a significant portion of our assets under management is attributable to carry paying funds that are not in their harvesting periods, we may receive substantially lower carried interest distributions. A decline in the pace or size of investment by our funds or an increase in the amount of transaction fees and management or monitoring fees we share with our fund investors would result in our receiving less revenue from such fees The transaction and management or monitoring fees that we earn are driven in part by the pace at which our funds make investments and the size of those investments. Any decline in that pace or the size of such investments would reduce our revenue from transaction and management or monitoring fees. Many factors could cause such a decline in the pace of investment or the transaction and management or monitoring fees we receive, including: •the inability of our investment professionals to identify attractive investment opportunities; •competition for such opportunities among other potential acquirers; •decreased availability of capital or financing on attractive terms; •our failure to consummate identified investment opportunities because of business, regulatory or legal complexities and adverse developments in the U.S. or global economy or financial markets; •terms we may agree with our fund investors to increase the percentage of transaction or other fees we may share with them; and •new regulations or actions of regulatory authorities. Our inability to raise additional or successor funds (or raise successor funds of a comparable size as our predecessor funds) could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our current private equity funds and certain other funds and investment vehicles have a finite life and a finite amount of commitments from fund investors. Once a fund nears the end of its investment period, our success depends on our ability to raise additional or successor funds in order to keep making investments and, over the long term, earning management fees (although our funds and investment vehicles generally continue to earn management fees at a reduced fee rate after the expiration of their investment periods). Even if we are successful in raising successor funds, to the extent we are unable to raise successor funds of a comparable size to our predecessor funds or the extent that we are delayed in raising such a successor fund, our revenues may decrease as the investment period of our predecessor funds expire and associated fees decrease. For example, KKR North America Fund XI, our most recent private equity fund focused primarily on North America, is smaller than its predecessor fund. In addition, the management fee for our European Fund III will decrease beginning the second quarter as the fund enters its post-investment period on March 31, 2014, and we will not have a successor European private equity fund to offset such decrease in fees until such successor fund has its first close and commences its investment period. The evolving preferences of our fund investors may necessitate that alternatives to the traditional investment fund structure, such as 42 Table of Contents managed accounts, smaller funds and co-investment vehicles become a larger part of our business going forward. This could increase our cost of raising capital at the scale we have historically achieved. Furthermore, in order to raise capital for new strategies and products without drawing capital away from our existing products, we will need to seek new sources of capital. Institutional investors in funds that have suffered from decreasing returns, liquidity pressure, increased volatility or difficulty maintaining targeted asset allocations, may materially decrease or temporarily suspend making new fund investments. Such investors may elect to reduce their overall portfolio allocations to alternative investments such as private equity funds, resulting in a smaller overall pool of available capital in our industry. In addition, the asset allocation rules or regulations or investment policies to which such third-party investors are subject, could inhibit or restrict the ability of third-party investors to make investments in our investment funds. Coupled with a lack of distributions from their existing investment portfolios, many of these investors may have been left with disproportionately outsized remaining commitments to, and invested capital in, a number of investment funds, which may significantly limit their ability to make new commitments to third-party managed investment funds such as those advised by us. Fund investors may also seek to redeploy capital away from certain of our credit vehicles, hedge fund, fund of funds or other investment vehicles, which permit redemptions on relatively short notice in order to meet liquidity needs or invest in other asset classes. We believe that our ability to avoid excessive redemption levels primarily depends on our funds' continued satisfactory performance, although redemptions may also be driven by other factors important to our fund investors, including their need for liquidity and compliance with investment mandates, even if our performance is superior. Any such redemptions would decrease our AUM and revenues. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, under what has become known as the "Volcker Rule," broadly prohibits depository institution holding companies (including foreign banks with U.S. branches or agencies), insured depository institutions and their subsidiaries and controlled affiliates, or banking entities, from investing in third-party private equity funds like ours. Final regulations implementing the Volcker Rule were approved by the federal banking agencies, the SEC and the CFTC on December 10, 2013, although there is still uncertainty regarding the implementation of the Volcker Rule and the final regulations and their practical implications. Although banking entities will generally have until July 21, 2015 to conform their existing activities and investments to the requirements of the final regulations, they may be limited in their ability to undertake new contractual commitments to private equity funds like ours. Banking entities have historically represented an important class of investors for our funds, with financial institutions constituting approximately 16% of our AUM as of December 31, 2013, and it is possible that other institutions will not be available to replace this traditional source of capital for our private equity funds. Furthermore, divestitures by banking entities of interests in private equity funds and hedge funds over the next several years to comply with the Volcker Rule may lead to lower prices in the secondary market for our fund interests, which could have adverse implications for our ability to raise funds from investors who may have considered the availability of secondary market liquidity as a factor in determining whether to invest. The number of funds raising capital varies from year to year, and in years where relatively few funds are raising capital, the growth of our AUM, FPAUM and associated fees may be significantly lower. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2013 several large, private equity funds, namely our North America Fund XI and Asian Fund II, were actively fundraising. AUM for the year ended December 31, 2013 totaled $94.3 billion, up from $75.5 billion as of December 31, 2012, of which $21.2 billion was attributable to new capital raised. As these funds have completed fundraising and as the fundraising outlook for our next Europe focused fund is uncertain, our growth in AUM, FPAUM and associated fees attributable to new capital raised may be significantly lower. In addition, we had several successful fundraises in 2013 for newer strategies such as Real Estate Partners Americas, Energy Income and Growth Fund and our Special Situations Fund, and there is no assurance that fundraises for other new strategies will experience similar success in the future. 43 Table of Contents Our investors in future funds, including separately managed accounts, may negotiate to pay us lower management fees and the economic terms of our future funds may be less favorable to us than those of our existing funds, which could adversely affect our revenues. In connection with raising new funds or securing additional investments in existing funds, we negotiate terms for such funds and investments with investors. The outcome of such negotiations could result in our agreement to terms that are materially less favorable to us than the terms of prior funds we have advised or funds advised by our competitors. For example such terms could restrict our ability to raise investment funds with investment objectives or strategies that compete with existing funds, reduce fee revenues we earn, reduce the percentage of profits on third-party capital in which we share, include a performance hurdle that requires us to generate a specified return on investment prior to our right to receive carried interest or add expenses and obligations for us in managing the fund or increase our potential liabilities. For example our newest private equity funds, including North America Fund XI and Asian Fund II, include a performance hurdle that requires us to generate a 7% return on investment prior to receiving our share of fund gains. Furthermore, as institutional investors increasingly consolidate their relationships with investment firms and competition becomes more acute, we may receive more of these requests to modify the terms in our new funds. Certain of our newer funds also include more favorable terms for fund investors that commit to early closes for our funds. Agreement to terms that are materially less favorable to us could result in a decrease in our profitability. Certain institutional investors have also publicly criticized certain fund fee and expense structures, including management or monitoring fees and transaction and advisory fees. We have received and expect to continue to receive requests from a variety of fund investors and groups representing such investors to decrease fees and to modify our carried interest and incentive fee structures, which could result in a reduction or delay in the timing of receipt of the fees and carried interest and incentive fees we earn. In September of 2009, the Institutional Limited Partners Association, or "ILPA," published a set of Private Equity Principles, or the "Principles," which were revised in January 2011. The Principles were developed in order to encourage discussion between limited partners and general partners regarding private equity fund partnership terms. Certain of the Principles call for enhanced "alignment of interests" between general partners and limited partners through modifications of some of the terms of fund arrangements, including proposed guidelines for fees and carried interest structures. We provided ILPA our endorsement of the Principles, representing an indication of our general support for the efforts of ILPA. In addition, certain institutional investors, including sovereign wealth funds and public pension funds, have demonstrated an increased preference for alternatives to the traditional investment fund structure, such as managed accounts, specialized funds and co-investment vehicles. We also have entered into strategic partnerships with individual investors whereby we manage that investor's capital across a variety of our products on separately negotiated terms. There can be no assurance that such alternatives will be as profitable to us as the traditional investment fund structure, and the impact such a trend could have on our results of operations, if widely implemented, is unclear. Moreover, certain institutional investors are demonstrating a preference to in-source their own investment professionals and to make direct investments in alternative assets without the assistance of private equity advisers like us. Such institutional investors may become our competitors and could cease to be our clients. Any agreement to terms less favorable to us could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The investment management business is intensely competitive, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. We compete as an investment manager for both fund investors and investment opportunities. The investment management business is highly fragmented, with our competitors consisting primarily of sponsors of public and private investment funds, real estate development companies, business 44 Table of Contents development companies, investment banks, commercial finance companies and operating companies acting as strategic buyers of businesses. We believe that competition for fund investors is based primarily on: •investment performance; •investor liquidity and willingness to invest; •investor perception of investment managers' drive, focus and alignment of interest; •business reputation; •the duration of relationships with fund investors; •the quality of services provided to fund investors; •pricing; •fund terms (including fees); and •the relative attractiveness of the types of investments that have been or will be made. We believe that competition for investment opportunities is based primarily on the pricing, terms and structure of a proposed investment and certainty of execution. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks: •a number of our competitors in some of our businesses may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do, and, in the case of some asset classes, longer operating histories, more established relationships or greater experience; •fund investors may materially decrease their allocations in new funds due to their experiences following an economic downturn, the limited availability of capital, regulatory requirements or a desire to consolidate their relationships with investment firms; •some of our competitors may have better expertise or be regarded by fund investors as having better expertise in a specific asset class or geographic region than we do; •some of our competitors have agreed to terms on their investment funds or products that may be more favorable to fund investors than our funds or products, such as lower management fees, greater fee sharing, or performance hurdles for carried interest, and therefore we may be forced to match or otherwise revise our terms to be less favorable to us than they have been in the past; •some of our funds may not perform as well as competitors' funds or other available investment products; •our competitors have raised or may raise significant amounts of capital, and many of them have similar investment objectives and strategies to our funds, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities and may reduce the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that many alternative investment strategies seek to exploit; •some of these competitors may also have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us, which may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to investment opportunities; •some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances, different risk assessments or lower return thresholds, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and to bid more aggressively than us for investments; •some of our competitors may be subject to less regulation or less regulatory scrutiny and accordingly may have more flexibility to undertake and execute certain businesses or investments than we do and/or bear less expense to comply with such regulations than we do; 45 Table of Contents •there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding the formation of new funds, including a relatively low cost of entering these businesses, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various lines of business, including major commercial and investment banks and other financial institutions, have resulted in increased competition; •some fund investors may prefer to invest with an investment manager that is not publicly traded, is smaller, or manages fewer investment products; and •other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us. We may lose investment opportunities in the future if we do not match investment prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Our competitors that are corporate buyers may be able to achieve synergistic cost savings in respect of an investment, which may provide them with a competitive advantage in bidding for an investment. Alternatively, we may experience decreased investment returns and increased risks of loss if we match investment prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Moreover, as a result, if we are forced to compete with other investment firms on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fund fee, carried interest or other terms. There is a risk that fees and carried interest in the alternative investment management industry will decline, without regard to the historical performance of a manager. Fee or carried interest income reductions on existing or future funds, without corresponding decreases in our cost structure, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, if interest rates were to rise or if market conditions for competing investment products become or are favorable and such products begin to offer rates of return superior to those achieved by our funds, the attractiveness of our funds relative to investments in other investment products could decrease. This competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to make successful investments and limit our ability to raise future funds, either of which would adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flow. Our structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax laws for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. These structures also are subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of our unitholders depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax laws for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. You should be aware that the U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of owning our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time, and any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made. For instance, changes to the U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could make it more difficult or impossible for us to be treated as a partnership that is not taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, affect the tax considerations of owning our common units, change the character or treatment of portions of our income (including, for instance, the treatment of carried interest as ordinary income rather than capital gain) and adversely impact your investment in our common units. See the discussion below under "—The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would have (i) in some cases after a ten-year period, precluded us from qualifying as a partnership or required us to hold carried interest through taxable subsidiary corporations and (ii) taxed certain income and gains at increased rates. If any similar legislation were to be enacted and apply to us, the after tax income and gain related to our business, as well as the market price of our units, could be reduced." Our organizational documents and agreements give the Managing Partner broad authority to modify the amended and restated 46 Table of Contents partnership agreement from time to time as the Managing Partner determines to be necessary or appropriate, without the consent of the unitholders, to address changes in U.S. federal, state and local income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation. In some circumstances, such revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all unitholders. For instance, the Managing Partner could elect at some point to treat us as an association taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal (and applicable state) income tax purposes. If the Managing Partner were to do this, the U.S. federal income tax consequences of owning our common units would be materially different. Moreover, certain assumptions and conventions will be applied in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to unitholders in a manner that reflects such unitholders' beneficial ownership of partnership items, taking into account variation in ownership interests during each taxable year because of trading activity. However, those assumptions and conventions may not be in compliance with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. It is possible that the IRS will assert successfully that the conventions and assumptions used by us do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and/or Treasury regulations and could require that items of income, gain, deductions, loss or credit, including interest deductions, be adjusted, reallocated or disallowed in a manner that adversely affects our unitholders. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would have (i) in some cases after a ten-year period, precluded us from qualifying as a partnership or required us to hold carried interest through taxable subsidiary corporations and (ii) taxed certain income and gains at increased rates. If any similar legislation were to be enacted and apply to us, the after tax income and gain related to our business, as well as the market price of our units, could be reduced. Over the past several years, a number of legislative and administrative proposals have been introduced and, in certain cases, have been passed by the U.S. House of Representatives, that would have, in general, treated income and gains, including gain on sale, attributable to an interest in an investment services partnership interest, or "ISPI", as income subject to a new blended tax rate that is higher than under current law, except to the extent such ISPI would have been considered under the legislation to be a qualified capital interest. Your interest in us, our interest in KKR Fund Holdings L.P. and the interests that KKR Fund Holdings L.P. holds in entities that are entitled to receive carried interest may have been classified as ISPIs for purposes of this legislation. It is unclear when or whether the U.S. Congress will pass such legislation or what provisions will be included in any legislation, if enacted. The most recent legislative proposals provided that, for taxable years beginning ten years after the date of enactment, income derived with respect to an ISPI that is not a qualified capital interest and that is subject to the rules discussed above would not meet the qualifying income requirements under the publicly traded partnership rules. Therefore, if similar legislation is enacted, following such ten-year period, we would be precluded from qualifying as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or be required to hold all such ISPIs through corporations, possibly U.S. corporations. If we were taxed as a U.S. corporation or required to hold all ISPIs through corporations, our effective tax rate would increase significantly. The federal statutory rate for corporations is currently 35%. In addition, we could be subject to increased state and local taxes. Furthermore, you could be subject to tax on our conversion into a corporation or any restructuring required in order for us to hold our ISPIs through a corporation. KKR's principals and other professionals could face additional adverse tax consequences under the legislation, which might thereby adversely affect KKR's ability to offer attractive incentive opportunities for key personnel. The Obama administration has submitted similar legislation to Congress that would tax income and gain, now treated as capital gains, including gain on disposition of interests, attributable to an ISPI at rates higher than the capital gains rate applicable to such income under current law, with an exception for certain qualified capital interests. The proposed legislation would also characterize certain income and gain in respect of ISPIs as non-qualifying income under the publicly traded partnership 47 Table of Contents rules after a ten-year transition period from the effective date, with an exception for certain qualified capital interests. The Obama administration's published revenue proposals for 2013 and prior years contained similar proposals. States and other jurisdictions have also considered legislation to increase taxes with respect to carried interest. For example, New York has periodically considered legislation under which you could be subject to New York state income tax on income in respect of our common units as a result of certain activities of our affiliates in New York, although it is unclear when or whether such legislation will be enacted. If the proposed legislation described above or any similar legislation were to be enacted and apply to us, the after tax income and gain related to our business, as well as the market price of our units, could be reduced. Additional proposed changes in the U.S. taxation of businesses could adversely affect us. The Obama administration has announced other proposals for potential reform to the U.S. federal income tax rules for businesses, including reducing the deductibility of interest for corporations, reducing the top marginal rate on corporations and subjecting entities, like many of our entities, currently treated as partnerships for tax purposes to an entity-level income tax similar to the corporate income tax. Several proposals for reform, if enacted, could adversely affect us and could reduce the cash we have available for distributions to unitholders or for other uses by us. It is unclear what any actual legislation could provide, when it would be proposed or what its prospects for enactment could be. Other proposals contemplate the migration of the United States from a "worldwide" system of taxation, pursuant to which U.S. corporations are taxed on their worldwide income, to a territorial tax system where U.S. corporations are taxed only on their U.S. source income (subject to certain exceptions for income derived in low-tax jurisdictions from the exploitation of intangible assets) at a top corporate tax rate that would be 25%. The territorial tax system proposals envisage a revenue neutral result and consequently include revenue raisers to offset the reduction in the tax rate and base which may or may not be detrimental to the value of our common units. A variation of this proposal contemplates a similar territorial U.S. tax system, but with more expansive U.S. taxation of the foreign profits of some non-U.S. subsidiaries. Such proposal could have the effect of accelerating and/or increasing the U.S. taxes payable with respect to earnings of certain of our and our portfolio companies' non-U.S. subsidiaries. This proposal would also eliminate the withholding tax exemption on portfolio interest debt obligations for investors residing in non-treaty jurisdictions, which could result in additional U.S. withholding taxes imposed on U.S-source interest attributable to certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries or non-U.S. investors. Whether these proposals will be enacted by the government and in what form is unknown, as are the ultimate consequences of the proposed legislation. We depend on our founders and other key personnel, the loss of whose services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results and financial condition. We depend on the efforts, skills, reputations and business contacts of our principals, including our founders, Henry Kravis and George Roberts, and other key personnel, the information and deal flow they and others generate during the normal course of their activities and the synergies among the diverse fields of expertise and knowledge held by our professionals. Accordingly, our success depends on the continued service of these individuals, who are not obligated to remain employed with us. The loss of the services of any of them could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, net income and cash flows and could harm our ability to maintain or grow AUM in existing funds or raise additional funds in the future. 48 Table of Contents Our principals and other key personnel possess substantial experience and expertise and have strong business relationships with investors in our funds and other members of the business community. As a result, the loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with investors in our funds and members of the business community and result in the reduction of AUM or fewer investment opportunities. For example, if any of our principals were to join or form a competing firm, our business, results and financial condition could suffer. Furthermore, the agreements governing our private equity funds and certain non-private equity investment funds managed by us provide that in the event certain "key persons" in these funds (for example, both of Messrs. Kravis and Roberts for our private equity funds, and, in the case of certain geographically or product focused funds, one or more of the executives focused on such funds) generally cease to actively manage a fund, investors in the fund will be entitled to: (i) in the case of our private equity funds, reduce, in whole or in part, their capital commitments available for further investments; and (ii) in the case of certain of our credit or other non-private equity investment funds, withdraw all or any portion of their capital accounts, in each case on an investor-by-investor basis (which could lead possibly to a liquidation of those funds). The occurrence of such an event would likely have a significant negative impact on our revenue, net income and cash flow. If we cannot retain and motivate our principals and other key personnel and recruit, retain and motivate new principals and other key personnel, our business, results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our most important asset is our people, and our continued success is highly dependent upon the efforts of our principals and other professionals, and to a substantial degree on our ability to retain and motivate our principals and other key personnel and to strategically recruit, retain and motivate new talented personnel, including new principals. However, we may not be successful in these efforts as the market for qualified investment professionals is extremely competitive. Our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our professionals is dependent on our ability to offer highly attractive incentive opportunities. If legislation, such as the recent carried interest proposals were to be enacted, income and gains recognized with respect to carried interest would be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as ordinary income rather than as capital gain. Such legislation would materially increase the amount of taxes that we, our principals and other professionals would be required to pay, thereby adversely affecting our ability to offer such attractive incentive opportunities. See "—Risks Related to U.S. Taxation". In addition, there are pending laws and regulations that seek to regulate the compensation of certain of our employees. See "—Extensive Regulation of our business affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could result in additional burdens on our business." The loss of even a small number of our investment professionals could jeopardize the performance of our funds and other investment products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Efforts to retain or attract investment professionals may result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. Many of our principals hold interests in our business through KKR Holdings. These individuals currently receive financial benefits from our business in the form of distributions and amounts funded by KKR Holdings and through their direct and indirect participation in the value of KKR Group Partnership Units held by KKR Holdings. While all of our employees and our principals receive base salaries from us, profit-based cash bonuses for certain principals currently are borne by KKR Holdings from cash reserves based upon distributions on a portion of KKR Group Partnership Units held by KKR Holdings. In 2013, the amount of such profit-based cash bonuses paid by KKR Holdings L.P. was $90.6 million. There can be no assurance that KKR Holdings will have sufficient cash available to continue to make profit-based cash payments and we expect to pay a portion, or eventually all, of these cash bonus payments as KKR Holdings becomes unable to reserve cash for bonus compensation as our principals who hold equity interests through KKR Holdings become entitled to the cash distributions on the KKR Group Partnership Units held by KKR Holdings. 49 Table of Contents Moreover, in connection with the KPE Transaction, we made large grants of KKR Holdings units that vest in installments over a five year period commencing October 1, 2009 and will completely vest, subject to certain transfer restrictions on October 1, 2014. Our principals may also receive additional equity interests in our business through equity awards granted by KKR Holdings, which does not cause any dilution. However, we have granted and will grant some or all of the types of equity awards historically granted by KKR Holdings from our Equity Incentive Plan, which has caused dilution. In addition, we may be unwilling to grant our employees additional significant equity awards in our business, whether before or even after all of the KKR Holdings units granted in October 2009 vest in October 2014, and the value of the grants and distributions they receive in respect of their existing awards may be lower than anticipated. This may limit our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented personnel. In order to recruit and retain existing and future investment professionals, we may need to increase the level of compensation that we pay to them, which may cause a higher percentage of our revenue to be paid out in the form of compensation, which would have an adverse impact on our profit margins. In addition, there is no guarantee that the confidentiality and restrictive covenant agreements to which our principals are subject, together with our other arrangements with them, will prevent them from leaving us, joining our competitors or otherwise competing with us or that these agreements will be enforceable in all cases. These agreements will expire after a certain period of time, at which point each of our principals would be free to compete against us and solicit investors in our funds, clients and employees. Depending on which entity is a party to these agreements and/or the laws applicable to them, we may not be able to enforce them or become subject to lawsuits or other claims, and certain of these agreements might be waived, modified or amended at any time without our consent. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Confidentiality and Restrictive Covenant Agreements." We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces our culture of collaboration, motivation and alignment of interests with fund investors. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our changing enterprise and maintain our culture, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in losses or limit our growth. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to our funds, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. In addition, we operate in businesses that are highly dependent on information systems and technology. Our information systems and technology may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, may be subject to security risks, and the cost of maintaining such systems may increase from our current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we depend on our principal offices in New York City, where most of our administrative personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, or directly affecting our principal offices, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Our business continuation or disaster recovery programs may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and 50 Table of Contents endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, theft, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our fund investors' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our fund investors', our counterparties' or third parties' operations, which could result in significant losses, increased costs or reputational damage. Finally, we rely on third party service providers for certain aspects of our business, including for certain information systems, technology, administration, tax and compliance matters. Any interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third parties could impair the quality of our and our funds' operations and could impact our reputation and adversely affect our businesses and limit our ability to grow. Our portfolio companies also rely on data processing systems and the secure processing, storage and transmission of information, including payment and health information. A disruption or compromise of these systems could have a material adverse effect on the value of these businesses. Our organizational documents do not limit our ability to enter into new lines of businesses, and we may expand into new investment strategies, geographic markets and businesses, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businesses. We intend, to the extent that market conditions warrant, to seek to grow our businesses by increasing AUM in existing businesses, pursuing new investment strategies, including investment opportunities in new asset classes, developing new types of investment structures and products (such as managed accounts and structured products), and expanding into new geographic markets and businesses. We have in recent years opened offices in Asia, the Middle East and South America, and also developed a capital markets business in the United States, Europe, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific, which we intend to grow and diversify. We have also launched a number of new investment initiatives in areas such as real estate, energy, infrastructure and hedge funds. We have and may continue to pursue growth through acquisitions of other investment management companies, acquisitions of critical business partners, strategic partnerships or other strategic initiatives, which may include entering into new lines of business. For example, recently we have formed Merchant Capital Solutions LLC, a joint venture partnership that seeks to provide capital markets services to mid-market and sponsor-backed companies, and Maritime Finance Company, a new specialty finance company created to lend to the maritime industry. In addition, we expect opportunities will arise to acquire other alternative or traditional investment managers. For example, we have built and expanded our hedge fund solutions business with the acquisition of Prisma and expanded our European credit business with our acquisition of Avoca. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, undertake other strategic initiatives or enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with: •the required investment of capital and other resources; •the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk or liability or have not appropriated planned for such activities; •the possibility of diversion of management's attention from our core business; •the possibility of disruption of our ongoing business; •combining, integrating or developing operational and management systems and controls; •potential increase in concentration of the investors in our funds; 51 Table of Contents •disagreements with joint venture partners or other stakeholders in strategic partnerships; and •the broadening of our geographic footprint, including the risks associated with conducting operations in foreign jurisdictions, including taxation. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. If a new business generates insufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our strategic initiatives may include joint ventures, in which case we will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. We may not be successful in executing upon or managing the complexities of new investment strategies, markets and businesses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth strategy is based, in part, on the expansion of our platform through selective investment in, and development or acquisition of, businesses and investment strategies complementary to our business. The expansion into new products and geographies has demanded greater management attention and dedication of resources to manage the increasing complexity of operations and regulatory compliance. This growth strategy involves a number of risks, including the risk that the expected synergies from a newly developed product or strategic alliance will not be realized, that the expected results will not be achieved, that new strategies are not appropriately planned for or integrated into the firm, that the new strategies may conflict, detract from or compete against our existing businesses, that the investment process, controls and procedures that we have developed around our existing platform will prove insufficient or inadequate or that our information systems and technology, including related security systems, may prove to be inadequate. We have also entered into strategic partnerships and separately managed accounts, which lack the scale of our traditional funds and are more costly to administer. The prevalence of these accounts may also present conflicts and introduce complexity in the deployment of capital. The offering of investment products to retail investors, including our funds registered under the Investment Company Act, may result in increased compliance and litigation costs. We may also incur significant charges in connection with such investments, which ultimately may result in significant losses and costs. Such losses could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as do harm to our professional reputation. Our proposed merger with KFN is subject to uncertainty and our acquisitions, including our proposed acquisition of KFN, expose us to increased risks and liabilities. From time to time, we or our affiliates acquire or agree to acquire other businesses or invest in other businesses. These acquisitions include our proposed merger with KFN. The completion of these acquisitions is subject to various conditions and may expose us to increased risks and liabilities, such as: •We may be unable to obtain the regulatory clearances required to complete the acquisitions or, in order to do so, we may be required to comply with material restrictions or satisfy material conditions. If we must take such actions, it could be detrimental to us or to the combined organization following the consummation of the relevant acquisition. Furthermore, these actions could have the effect of delaying or preventing completion of the relevant acquisition or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined organization following the consummation of the relevant acquisitions. •We incur substantial transaction-related costs in connection with our acquisitions including non-recurring transaction-related costs. Non-recurring transaction costs include, but are not 52 Table of Contents limited to, fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, filing fees and printing costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses. •Failure to successfully combine the acquired businesses in the expected timeframe may adversely affect the future results of the combined organization, and, consequently, the value of our common units. The success of our acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining our businesses and the acquired business on a timely basis. Failure to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could result in declines in the market value of KKR common units. •Failure to complete an acquisition, or significant delays in completing an acquisition, could negatively affect the trading prices of our common units and our future business and financial results. Completion of an acquisition is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval by the shareholders or by governmental agencies is not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. If an acquisition is not completed we may also be liable for damages or have to pay certain significant costs relating to the acquisition; and the attention of our management will have been diverted to the acquisition rather than our own operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. •Purported class action complaints may be, and in the case of the proposed KFN merger have been, filed challenging the acquisition, and an unfavorable judgment or ruling in these lawsuits could prevent or delay the consummation of an acquisition and result in substantial costs. In the case of the proposed KFN merger, multiple class action lawsuits are currently pending that challenge the merger. Each lawsuit names as defendants some or all of the parties to the merger and the individual members of KFN's board of directors. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the proposed merger. If these lawsuits are not dismissed or otherwise resolved, they could prevent and/or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors. Additional lawsuits may be filed in connection with the proposed merger. There can be no assurance that any of the defendants will prevail in the pending litigation or in any future litigation. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim may adversely affect the combined organization's business, financial condition or results of operations. •Acquisitions, if consummated, subject us to additional risks related to the acquired entity's business and operations. For example, following the KFN merger, if completed, we will be subject to the risk that the conduct of KFN's operations may render it an investment company and we would be required to sell assets, change the manner of its operations or register KFN as an investment company. If KFN were to be deemed to be an investment company, maintaining KFN's investment company status might also make it more difficult for KKR to comply with its own exemption from investment company status under the Investment Company Act. See "—If KFN were deemed to be an 'investment company' subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business." Upon completion of the merger, we will also have increased exposure to the CLO and leveraged finance markets. See "—Dependence on significant leverage in investments by our funds could adversely affect our ability to achieve attractive rates of return on those investments." Upon the completion of the merger, it is expected that KFN would be consolidated, and, as a result, the management and incentive fees we earn from KFN would be eliminated on a segment basis. In addition, in enlarging our balance sheet, we are pursuing a different business strategy than our competitors, which generally have smaller balance sheets than we do. To the extent we are unsuccessful in developing this strategy, our business and financial results may suffer. 53 Table of Contents If we are unable to syndicate the securities or indebtedness or realize returns on investments financed with our principal assets, our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our principal assets provide us with a significant source of capital to grow and expand our business, increase our participation in our transactions and underwrite commitments in our capital markets business. Our principal assets have provided a source of capital to underwrite loans, securities or other financial instruments, which we generally expect to syndicate to third parties. To the extent that we are unable to do so, we may be required to sell such investments at a significant loss or hold them indefinitely. If we are required to retain investments on our balance sheet for an extended period of time, the inability of our capital markets business to complete additional transactions would impair our results. In addition, as our principal assets have been a significant source of financing for new strategies, to the extent that such strategies are not successful or our principal assets cease to provide adequate liquidity, we would be limited in our ability to seed new businesses or support our existing business as effectively as contemplated. Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to regulation, including periodic examinations, by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Many of these regulators, including U.S. and foreign government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, are empowered to conduct investigations and administrative proceedings that can result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including censure, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of applicable licenses and memberships. Even if an investigation or proceeding does not result in a sanction or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to the investigation, proceeding or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients and fund investors or fail to gain new clients and fund investors. As a result of market disruptions in the past years as well as highly publicized financial scandals, regulators and fund investors exhibited concerns over the integrity of the U.S. and global financial markets. In response, regulators in the United States and elsewhere launched programs of regulatory reform that have broad implications for us and for our funds, as well as for many of the markets in which we and they operate. In addition, the private equity industry has come under increased political, regulatory and news media scrutiny with politicians, governmental officials, and regulators focusing on the taxation of carried interest and the private equity industry's allocation of expenses to the funds and valuation practices. Any changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our business, including the changes and potential changes described below, as well as adverse news media attention, may impose additional expenses or capital requirements on us, limit our fundraising for our investment products, result in limitations in the manner in which our business is conducted, have an adverse impact upon our financial condition, results of operations or prospects, impair executive retention or recruitment and require substantial attention by senior management. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed or may become law on our business or the markets in which we operate. If enacted, any new regulation or regulatory framework could negatively impact our funds and us in a number of ways, including increasing our costs and the cost for our funds of investing, borrowing or hedging, increasing the funds' or our regulatory costs, imposing additional burdens on the funds' or our staff, and potentially requiring the disclosure of sensitive information. In addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. New laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult or more expensive, affect 54 Table of Contents the manner in which we conduct business and divert significant management and operational resources and attention from our business. Moreover, we anticipate the potential for an increase in regulatory investigations and new or enhanced reporting requirements of the trading and other investment activities of alternative investment management funds and firms, including our funds and us. Such investigations and reporting obligations will likely impose additional expenses on us, may require the attention of senior management and increase the complexity of managing our business and may result in fines if we or any of our funds are deemed to have violated any regulations. There have been a number of legislative or regulatory proposals affecting the financial sector in the United States. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, that President Obama signed into law on July 21, 2010, creates a significant amount of new regulation. The Dodd-Frank Act: •establishes the Financial Stability Oversight Council, or FSOC, a federal agency charged with, among other things, designating systemically important nonbank financial companies for heightened prudential supervision and making recommendations regarding the imposition of enhanced regulatory standards regarding capital, leverage, conflicts and other requirements for financial firms deemed to pose a systemic threat to the financial stability of the U.S. economy; •requires private equity and hedge fund advisers to register with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act (as described elsewhere in this report, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries KKR Asset Management LLC and Prisma Capital Partners LP are registered with the SEC as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act), to maintain extensive records and to file reports if deemed necessary for purposes of systemic risk assessment by certain governmental bodies; •authorizes federal regulatory agencies to review and, in certain cases, prohibit compensation arrangements at financial institutions that give employees incentives to engage in conduct deemed to encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions; •requires public companies to adopt and disclose policies requiring, in the event the company is required to issue an accounting restatement, the clawback of related incentive compensation from current and former executive officers; •restricts the ability of banking organizations to sponsor or invest in private equity and hedge funds; •grants the U.S. government resolution authority to liquidate or take emergency measures with regard to troubled financial institutions that fall outside the existing resolution authority of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC; and •creates a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau within the U.S. Federal Reserve. Many of these provisions are subject to further rule making and to the discretion of regulatory bodies, such as the FSOC. For example, the following rulemaking has been enacted and the following notices of proposed rulemakings have recently been announced that may apply to us or our subsidiaries: •On April 3, 2012, the FSOC issued a final rule and interpretive guidance regarding the process by which it will designate nonbank financial companies as systemically important. The rule and guidance detail a three-stage review process, with the level of scrutiny increasing at each stage. During the first stage, the FSOC will apply a broad set of uniform quantitative metrics to identify nonbank financial companies that warrant additional review. In this first stage, the FSOC considers whether a nonbank financial company has at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets and whether it meets other thresholds relating to credit default swaps outstanding, derivative liabilities, loans and bonds outstanding, a minimum leverage ratio of total 55 Table of Contents consolidated assets to total equity of 15 to 1, and a short-term debt ratio of debt (with maturities less than 12 months) to total consolidated assets of 10%. A company that meets both the asset test and at least one of the other thresholds will be subject to additional review in Stage 2. Although we have more than $50 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2013 and we believe we should not currently meet the Stage 1 criteria outlined above, those criteria as well as our business may evolve over time. Additional uncertainty is created because the FSOC retains authority to designate any nonbank financial company as systemically important, even if the company does not meet the Stage 1 criteria. The FSOC will consider in the future whether to establish "an additional set of metrics or thresholds tailored to evaluate hedge funds and private equity firms and their advisers." The preamble to the final rule notes that less regulatory data is generally available for hedge funds and private equity firms, but indicates that, in developing any such additional metrics or thresholds, it intends to review financial disclosures that private fund advisers are required to file with the SEC and CFTC, as further described below. If the FSOC were to determine that we were a systemically important nonbank financial company, we would be subject to a heightened degree of regulation, including more stringent standards relating to capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management, resolution planning and credit exposure reporting and concentration limits, restrictions on acquisitions and annual stress testing by the Federal Reserve. There can be no assurance that nonbank financial firms such as us will not become subject to the aforementioned restrictions or other requirements for financial firms deemed to be systemically important to the financial stability of the U.S. economy. •The Dodd-Frank Act, under what has become known as the "Volcker Rule," broadly prohibits depository institution holding companies (including foreign banks with U.S. branches or agencies), insured depository institutions and their subsidiaries and controlled affiliates (", or banking entities"), from investing in third-party private equity funds like ours. See "—Our inability to raise additional or successor funds (or raise successor funds of a comparable size as our predecessor funds) could have a material adverse impact on our business." •On October 26, 2011, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring certain advisers to private funds to periodically file reports on a new Form PF. Large private fund advisers including advisers with at least $1.5 billion in assets under management attributable to hedge funds and advisers with at least $2 billion in assets under management attributable to private equity funds are subject to more detailed and in certain cases more frequent reporting requirements. The information will be used by the FSOC in monitoring risks to the U.S. financial system. •On March 2, 2011, the SEC proposed a rule as part of a joint rule-making effort with federal banking regulators designed to prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions and are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses. The proposed rule would cover financial institutions with total consolidated assets of at least $1 billion, including investment advisers and broker-dealers, and provide heightened requirements for financial institutions with total consolidated assets of at least $50 billion. The application of this rule to us could require us to substantially revise our compensation strategy and affect our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. •The Dodd-Frank Act amends the Exchange Act to compensate and protect whistleblowers who voluntarily provide original information to the SEC and establishes a fund to be used to pay whistleblowers who will be entitled to receive a payment equal to between 10% and 30% of certain monetary sanctions imposed in a successful government action resulting from the information provided by the whistleblower. 56 Table of Contents As mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, has proposed or adopted a series of rules to establish a comprehensive new regulatory framework for swaps and security based swaps. For example in October 2011, the CFTC passed rules instituting position limits on certain physical commodity futures contracts, as well as swaps that are economically equivalent. Absent an applicable exemption, the regulations would have required aggregation of positions in accounts in which any person, directly or indirectly, holds an ownership interest of 10% or more, as well as accounts over which that person controls trading. In September 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia struck down these rules, but the CFTC has issued new rules regarding position limits that are substantially similar to the October 2011 rules. The timing of the adoption and the content of the final rules remain unclear. If the proposed rules are adopted in substantially the form proposed and to the extent that we do not qualify for an exemption, we may be required to aggregate the positions of our various investment funds and the positions of our portfolio companies. Although the scope of the new regulatory framework is still unclear, these and other new rules may require us and our portfolio companies to limit our trading activities, and in addition, our funds may have difficulty completing otherwise profitable acquisitions in particular industries or may generate profits that are lower than would otherwise be the case. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes regulatory requirements on the trading of swaps, including requirements that most swaps be executed on an exchange or "swap execution facility" and cleared through a central clearing house. Although these requirements presently apply only to certain classes of interest rate swaps and credit default swaps, the CFTC is expected to mandate central execution and clearing with respect to additional classes of swaps in the future. In addition, entities acting as dealers or "major swap participants" must register in the appropriate category and comply with capital, margin, record keeping, reporting and business conduct rules and that over-the-counter derivative transactions be reported to central swaps data repositories. The imposition of these requirements could increase the cost of trading in the derivative markets, which could in turn make it more expensive and difficult for us or our funds to enter into swaps and other derivatives in the normal course of our business. Among other things, margin requirements for swaps and other derivatives are expected to be greater than was previously the case in the over-the-counter market. Moreover, these increased regulatory responsibilities and increased costs could reduce trading levels in the derivative markets by a number of market participants, which could in turn adversely impact liquidity in the markets and expose our funds to greater risks and reduce hedging opportunities in connection with their trading activities. In February 2012, the CFTC issued a final rule that rescinded an exemption from CFTC registration for commodity pool operators in connection with privately offered funds, narrowed an exception from commodity pool operator registration obligations with respect to registered investment companies, and amended related rules and guidance. The CFTC and its staff have subsequently issued interpretive guidance and no-action letters regarding these exceptions and exclusions, and are expected to issue further guidance, including guidance regarding the registration obligations of operators of funds-of-funds. In addition, under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has assumed regulatory authority over many types of swaps. As a result, operating pooled funds or providing investment advice to clients that trade these swaps is now a basis for registration with the CFTC, absent an applicable exemption. Monitoring and analysis of whether these new rules would require us or one or more of our affiliates to register with the CFTC as commodity pool operators and/or commodity trading advisors requires management and operational resources and attention. Furthermore, operating our funds in a manner consistent with one or more exemptions from registration with the CFTC may limit the activities of certain of our funds, including our funds of funds. Registration with the CFTC, if required, could impact our operations and add additional costs associated with ongoing compliance. 57 Table of Contents In August 2012, the regulation on OTC Derivatives, Central Counterparties and Trade Repositories (also known as the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, or EMIR) became effective. Certain of the requirements of EMIR came into force in March 2013, and other obligations will be phased in. EMIR imposes a requirement that certain "standardized" OTC derivatives contracts are centrally cleared. Where OTC transactions are not subject to central clearing, techniques must be employed to monitor, measure and mitigate the operational and counterparty risks presented by the transaction. These risk mitigation techniques include trade confirmation, reconciliation processes, exchange of margin, and the daily mark-to-market of trades. EMIR also requires certain filings by market participants regarding OTC derivatives trades with central trade repositories. Certain of these risk mitigation obligations came into force on September 15, 2013. Further, market participants will be required to report any European derivative contract to a central trade repository. On July 17, 2013, the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) published a final report setting out certain regulatory technical standards on contracts with a direct, substantial and foreseeable effect within the EU and non-evasion. These technical standards set out the circumstances in which EMIR's provisions on central clearing and risk mitigation techniques will apply to OTC derivatives by two non-EU counterparties. The imposition of these requirements could increase the cost of trading in the derivative markets, which could in turn make it more expensive and difficult for us or our funds to enter into swaps and other derivatives in the normal course of our business. Moreover, these increased regulatory responsibilities and increased costs could reduce trading levels in the derivative markets by a number of market participants, which could in turn adversely impact liquidity in the markets and expose our funds to greater risks in connection with their trading activities. On September 3, 2013, ESMA also published its advice to the European Commission on the equivalence of EMIR with a number of third-country regimes. Based on this advice, the European Commission may make determinations that compliance with such third-country regimes will be deemed equivalent to compliance with EMIR on a recognition or "substituted compliance" basis. "Conditional" equivalence was proposed in relation to certain parts of the CFTC and SEC regimes whereby adherence to the relevant US regimes as well as a number of additional stipulations would deemed equivalent to EMIR. Ongoing regulatory uncertainty regarding the interaction between US and EU requirements for central clearing and related activities could result in duplicative regulatory obligations in the two jurisdictions, and could increase our costs of compliance. The EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD) entered into effect on July 22, 2013. AIFMD establishes a comprehensive regulatory and supervisory framework for alternative investment fund managers (AIFMs) managing and/or marketing alternative investment funds (AIFs) in the EU. The AIFMD imposes various substantive requirements to authorized AIFMs including rules on the structure of remuneration for certain personnel, a threshold for regulatory capital, reporting obligations in respect of controlled EU portfolio companies and increased transparency towards investors and regulators and allows authorized AIFMs to market AIFs to professional investors throughout the EU under an "EU passport". Available since July 2013 to authorized EU AIFMs, the EU passport is expected to be available to authorized non-EU AIFMs from late 2015. In the meantime (and until at least 2018), non-EU AIFMs may continue to market within the EU under the private placement regimes of the individual member states subject to complying with certain minimum requirements imposed by the AIFMD and any additional requirements that individual member states may impose. The AIFMD will also impose a new, strict depositary regime affecting how prime brokers may provide custody services to fund managers. Although many member states have now implemented the AIFMD, a number of member states did not meet the implementation deadline of July 22, 2013. Once authorized as an AIFM, the passport system should be available even where the host member has not transposed the AIFMD into national law. AIFMs in member states that have not yet implemented the AIFMD cannot rely on the marketing passport in other member states. 58 Table of Contents The AIFMD, the Level 2 Regulation and EU member state implementing measures could have an adverse effect on our businesses by, among other things, (i) imposing disclosure obligations and restrictions on distributions by EU portfolio companies of the funds we manage, (ii) significantly restricting marketing activities in the EU, (iii) potentially requiring changes in our compensation structures for key personnel, thereby potentially affecting our ability to recruit and retain these personnel, (iv) potentially in effect restricting our funds' investments in companies based in EU countries; (v) require us to restructure our operations and (vi) generally increasing our compliance costs. The AIFMD, the Level 2 Regulation and the EU member state implementing measures could limit, both in absolute terms and in comparison to EU-based investment managers and funds, our operating flexibility, our ability to market our funds, and our fund raising and investment opportunities, as well as expose us to conflicting regulatory requirements in the United States and the EU. In October 2011, the European Commission published its proposed revisions to the existing Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (known as MiFID I), consisting of the revised directive MiFID II and a new related regulation, MiFIR. The proposed revisions are intended to further strengthen the EU regulatory framework for the provision of investment services and trading in financial instruments. A number of substantial reforms are proposed on transaction reporting, market structure, securities trading and conduct of business rules, including new regulatory equivalence requirements for third country firms in order for those firms to provide certain investment services in the EU. The MiFID II/MiFIR proposals are expected to be finalized and agreed by EU legislators by the first quarter of 2014 and to enter into effect in late 2014 at the earliest. It is currently expected that the majority of the provisions of MiFID II will come into force in member states during 2016. These regulations of investment firms is expected to increase the regulatory and operating costs of our affected businesses, particularly with regards to reporting requirements. During the course of 2012, the EU has proposed or adopted a series of regulatory initiatives that may impact certain aspects of our business in EU member states. In March 2012, a regulation that limits sovereign and naked short selling of government bonds and stocks, the Short Selling Regulation, became effective. The Short Selling Regulation took effect on November 1, 2012. In June 2012, the European Commission published a legislative proposal for a directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. If and when adopted, the Directive will impose new obligations on covered institutions, including preparation of recovery and resolution plans, and give regulators wide-ranging powers. Revisions to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive that were proposed in October 2011 are likely to be adopted in 2013 and are expected to result in new regulatory burdens, including a requirement to trade certain derivatives on regulated trading venues. In addition having an EU-regulated broker-dealer may bring other parts of our business, namely our investments in non-EU insurance brokers, within the scope of the EU's Financial Conglomerates Directive. If we were to become subject to these regulations, our business would become subject to capital adequacy requirements, additional reporting and disclosure requirements, a possible request by EU regulators to establish an EU based intermediate holding company controlling the EU based regulated entities and possible stress testing if requested by EU regulator. The imposition of these requirements could increase our and our funds' costs and the complexity of managing our business and may result in fines if we or any of our funds are deemed to have violated any of the new regulations. On January 1, 2011, an amendment to the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD III) entered into force. Among other things, CRD III requires EU member states to introduce stricter controls on remuneration for key employees and risk takers within specified credit institutions and investment firms. The Committee of European Banking Supervisors, or CEBS, published guidelines on the implementation of CRD III in December 2010. Also in December 2010, the UK Financial Services Authority, or FSA, amended its Remuneration Code to reflect CRD III. One of our subsidiaries established in the UK is subject to CRD III. CRD III required changes in our compensation structures 59 Table of Contents for key personnel of this subsidiary, thereby potentially affecting its ability to recruit and retain these personnel. In 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, an international body comprised of senior representatives of bank supervisory authorities and central banks from 27 countries, including the United States, finalized a comprehensive set of capital and liquidity standards, commonly referred to as "Basel III," for internationally active banking organizations. These new standards, which are expected to be fully phased in by 2019, are expected to require banks to hold more capital, predominantly in the form of common equity, than under the current capital framework. In July 2011, the European Commission published legislative proposals to implement Basel III's capital and liquidity standards by revising the existing Capital Requirements Directive and issuing a new Capital Requirements Regulation, collectively referred to as CRD IV, which came into force on January 1, 2014. CRD IV replaces the current CRD directive with new measures implementing the Basel III requirements, as well as creating a single harmonized prudential rule book for banks, introducing new corporate governance and a limited number of additional remuneration requirements, including an expected cap on variable remuneration, and enhancing the powers of regulators. In June 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies issued proposed regulations that, among other things, would implement the Basel III capital framework in the United States. Compliance with the Basel III standards may result in significant costs to banks, which in turn may result in higher borrowing costs for the private sector and reduced access to certain types of credit. Basel III may increase the cost of borrowing by our funds and portfolio companies, which may result in fewer investments being acquired or disposed, lower returns, a decrease in valuations of our investments, or an inability to refinance debt on economic terms. See "—Changes in the debt financing markets may negatively impact the ability of our private equity funds and their portfolio companies to obtain attractive financing for their investments and may increase the cost of such financing if it is obtained, which could lead to lower yielding investments and potentially decrease our net income." In October 2011 and November 2012, the Financial Stability Board, or FSB, issued reports that recommended strengthening the oversight and regulation of the so-called shadow banking system, broadly described as credit intermediation involving entities and activities outside the regular banking system. The report outlined initial steps to define the scope of the shadow banking system and proposed general governing principles for a monitoring and regulatory framework. The FSB published final recommendations for the regulation and oversight of shadow banking in August 2013. Building on the work of the FSB, a Money Market Funds (MMF) Regulation has been proposed by the European Commission to address such concerns. The key provisions of the proposed MMF Regulation include prescribed levels of daily and weekly liquidity, a capital buffer of 3% for constant net asset value funds, internal risk credit risk assessment to be carried out by the MMF manager to avoid reliance on external credit-ratings, and clear labels to distinguish between standard and short-term MMFs (with residual maturity not exceeding 297 days). While the MMF Regulation has not yet been finalized, based on the current proposals it is likely to extend the regulatory and supervisory requirements, such that the regulatory and operating costs of our affected businesses would increase and may become prohibitive. We regularly rely on exemptions in the United States from various requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Investment Company Act, the Commodity Exchange Act and the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA, in conducting our investment management activities. These exemptions are sometimes highly complex and may in certain circumstances depend on compliance by third parties whom we do not control. If for any reason these exemptions were to become unavailable to us, we could become subject to additional restrictive and costly registration requirements, regulatory action, or third party claims and our business could be materially and adversely affected. For example, in raising new funds, we typically rely on private placement exemptions from registration under the Securities Act, including Regulation D, which was 60 Table of Contents recently amended to prohibit issuers (including our funds) from relying on certain of the exemptions from registration if the fund or any of its "covered persons" (including certain officers and directors, but also including certain third parties including, among others, promoters, placement agents and beneficial owners of 20% of outstanding voting securities of the fund) has been the subject of a "disqualifying event," or a "bad actor," which can include a variety of criminal, regulatory and civil matters. If any of the covered persons associated with our funds is subject to a disqualifying event, one or more of our funds could lose the ability to raise capital in a Rule 506 private offering for a significant period of time, which could significantly impair our ability to raise new funds, and, therefore, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if certain of our employees or any potential significant investor has been the subject of a disqualifying event, we could be required to reassign or terminate such an employee or we could be required to refuse the investment of such an investor, which could impair our relationships with investors, harm our reputation, or make it more difficult to raise new funds. See also "—Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure—If we were deemed to be an "investment company" subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business." On the other hand, we are and will become further subject to additional regulatory and compliance burdens as we expand our product offerings and investment platform to include retail investors. For example, funds in our Public Markets segment are registered under the Investment Company Act as management investment companies. These funds and KKR Asset Management LLC, which serves as their investment adviser (or in the case of the business development company, as its sub-adviser), are subject to the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder, which, among other things, regulate the relationship between a registered investment company and its investment adviser and prohibit or severely restrict principal transactions and joint transactions. As our business expands we may be required to make additional registrations, including in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Compliance with these rules will increase our compliance costs and create potential for additional liabilities and penalties the management of which would divert management's attention from our business and investments. Other requirements imposed by our regulators are designed primarily to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in our funds and are not designed to protect holders of interests in our business. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities. For example, federal bank regulatory agencies have issued leveraged lending guidance covering transactions characterized by a degree of financial leverage. To the extent that such guidance limits the amount or cost of financing we are able to obtain for our transactions, the returns on our investments may suffer. In addition, the regulatory environment in which our funds or their investors operate may affect our business. For example, changes in antitrust laws or the enforcement of antitrust laws could affect the level of mergers and acquisitions activity, and changes in state or other local laws may limit investment activities of state pension plans or insurance companies. We may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC or other governmental regulatory authorities including foreign regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. We are also subject to a number of laws and regulations governing payments and contributions to political persons or other third parties, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, as well as trade sanctions and other export control laws administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State. The FCPA is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign governments and their officials and political parties, and requires public companies in the United States to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect those companies' transactions. OFAC, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State administer and enforce various export control laws and regulations, including 61 Table of Contents economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of our business, including servicing existing fund investors, finding new fund investors, and sourcing new investments, as well as activities by the portfolio companies in our investment portfolio or other controlled investments. The Iran Threat Reduction and Syrian Human Rights Act of 2012 ("ITRA") expands the scope of U.S. sanctions against Iran. Notably, ITRA prohibits foreign entities that are majority owned or controlled by U.S. persons from engaging in transactions with Iran that would be contrary to the sanctions regulations if undertaken by a U.S. person. In addition, Section 219 of the ITRA amended the Exchange Act to require public reporting companies to disclose in their annual or quarterly reports any dealings or transactions the company or its affiliates engaged in during the previous reporting period involving Iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain OFAC sanctions. In some cases, ITRA requires companies to disclose these types of transactions even if they were permissible under U.S. law or were conducted outside of the United States by a foreign affiliate. To our knowledge, none of our activities during the year ended December 31, 2013, are required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRA, except for certain activities of portfolio companies, as disclosed in Exhibit 99.1 to this annual report. We are required to separately file, concurrently with this annual report, a notice that such activities have been disclosed in this annual report. The SEC is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the U.S. President and certain U.S. Congressional committees. The U.S. President thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. Disclosure of such activity, even if such activity is not subject to sanctions under applicable law, and any sanctions actually imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities, could harm our reputation and have a negative impact on our business. Similar laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as EU sanctions or the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, or sanction or other export control laws in the U.S. and abroad, may also impose stricter or more onerous requirements than the FCPA, OFAC, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State, and implementing them may disrupt our business or cause us to incur significantly more costs to comply with those laws. Different laws may also contain conflicting provisions, making compliance with all laws more difficult. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm, incarceration of our employees, restrictions on our operations and other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be subject to successor liability for FCPA violations or other acts of bribery committed by companies in which we or our funds invest or which we or our funds acquire. In June 2010, the SEC approved Rule 206(4)-5 under the Advisers Act regarding "pay to play" practices by investment advisers involving campaign contributions and other payments to government clients and elected officials able to exert influence on such clients. Among other restrictions, the rule prohibits investment advisers from providing advisory services for compensation to a government client for two years, subject to very limited exceptions, after the investment adviser, its senior executives or its personnel involved in soliciting investments from government entities make contributions to certain candidates and officials in position to influence the hiring of an investment adviser by such government client. Advisers are required to implement compliance policies designed, among other matters, to track contributions by certain of the adviser's employees and engagements of third parties that solicit government entities and to keep certain records in order to enable the SEC to determine compliance with the rule. There has also been similar rule-making on a state-level regarding "pay to play" practices by investment advisers, including in California and New York. Any failure on our part to comply with 62 Table of Contents these rules could cause us to lose compensation for our advisory services or expose us to significant penalties and reputational damage. Certain laws to which we are subject, such as certain environmental laws, takeover laws, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, escheat or abandoned property laws, and antitrust laws, may impose requirements on us and our portfolio companies as an affiliated group and, in some cases, impose concepts such as joint and several liability or notification obligations on affiliates. For example, the United Kingdom introduced a CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme which requires, under certain circumstances, that funds, general partners and portfolio companies participate in the scheme as a single organization and aggregate the energy supplies made to each of them. In addition, the scheme imposes joint and several liability for compliance on the entities within the organization. Moreover, certain non-U.S. jurisdictions may seek to make us liable for the anti-trust violations, if any, committed by certain of our portfolio companies. Similarly, our portfolio companies may be subject to contractual obligations which may impose obligations or restrictions on their affiliates. The interpretation of such contractual provisions will depend on local laws. Given that we do not control all of our portfolio companies and that our portfolio companies generally operate independently of each other, there is a risk that we could contravene one or more of such laws, regulations and contractual arrangements due to limited access and opportunities to monitor compliance. In addition, compliance with these laws or contracts could require us to commit significant resources and capital towards information gathering and monitoring thereby increasing our operating costs. Our operations are subject to regulation and supervision in a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions, and the level of regulation and supervision to which we are subject varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is based on the type of business activity involved. See "Business—Regulation." The potential requirement to convert our financial statements from being prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America to International Financial Reporting Standards may materially strain our resources and materially increase our annual expenses. The SEC may require in the future that we report our financial results under International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, instead of under U.S. GAAP. IFRS is a set of accounting principles that has been gaining acceptance on a worldwide basis. These standards are published by the London-based International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") and are more focused on objectives and principles and less reliant on detailed rules than U.S. GAAP. Today, there remain significant and material differences in several key areas between U.S. GAAP and IFRS which would affect us if we were required to prepare financial statements in conformity with IFRS. Additionally, U.S. GAAP provides specific guidance in classes of accounting transactions for which equivalent guidance in IFRS does not exist. The adoption of IFRS is highly complex and would have an impact on many aspects and operations of KKR, including but not limited to financial accounting and reporting systems, internal controls, taxes, borrowing covenants and cash management. It is expected that a significant amount of time, internal and external resources and expenses over a multi-year period would be required for this conversion. We are subject to substantial litigation risks and may face significant liabilities and damage to our professional reputation as a result of litigation allegations and negative publicity. The investment decisions we make in our investment management business and the activities of our investment professionals on behalf of our portfolio companies may subject them and us to the risk of third-party litigation arising from dissatisfaction of fund investors with the performance of their funds, the activities of our portfolio companies and a variety of other litigation claims. See the section entitled "Litigation" appearing in Note 15 "Commitments and Contingencies" of our financial statements included elsewhere in this report. By way of example, we, our funds and certain of our employees are each exposed to the risks of litigation relating to investment activities of our funds and 63 Table of Contents actions taken by the officers and directors (some of whom may be KKR employees) of portfolio companies, such as the risk of shareholder litigation by other shareholders of public companies or holders of debt instruments of companies in which our funds have significant investments. We are also exposed to risks of litigation or investigation in the event of any transactions that presented conflicts of interest that were not properly addressed. To the extent investors in our investment funds suffer losses resulting from fraud, gross negligence, willful misconduct or other similar misconduct, such investors may have remedies against us, our investment funds, our principals or our affiliates under federal securities law and state law. Investors in our funds do not have legal remedies against us, the general partners of our funds, our funds, our principals or our affiliates solely based on their dissatisfaction with the investment performance of those funds. While the general partners and investment advisers to our investment funds, including their directors, officers, other employees and affiliates, are generally indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by law with respect to their conduct in connection with the management of the business and affairs of our investment funds, such indemnity generally does not extend to actions determined to have involved fraud, gross negligence, willful misconduct or other similar misconduct. In addition, we have formed and may continue to form funds targeting retail investors, which may subject us to additional risk of litigation and regulatory scrutiny. See—"Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business." If any civil or criminal lawsuits were brought against us and resulted in a finding of substantial legal liability or culpability, the lawsuit could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously impact our business. We depend to a large extent on our business relationships and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain fund investors and qualified professionals and to pursue investment opportunities for our funds. As a result, allegations of improper conduct by private litigants or regulators, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, our investment activities or the private equity industry in general, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation, which may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. In addition, with a workforce composed of many highly paid professionals, we face the risk of litigation relating to claims for compensation or other damages, which may, individually or in the aggregate, be significant in amount. The cost of settling any such claims could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Misconduct of our employees or at our portfolio companies could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. There is a risk that our principals and employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our business and our authority over the assets we manage. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees would adversely affect our clients and us. We may also be adversely affected if there is misconduct by senior management of portfolio companies in which our funds invest, even though we may be unable to control or mitigate such misconduct. Our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to companies in which we may invest. If our employees were improperly to use or disclose confidential information, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships, as well as face potentially significant litigation. It is not always possible to detect or deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If any of our employees or the 64 Table of Contents employees of portfolio companies were to engage in misconduct or were to be accused of such misconduct, our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. Underwriting activities expose us to risks. KKR Capital Markets LLC, a subsidiary of ours, may act as an underwriter in securities offerings. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities or indebtedness we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to potential liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. We are subject to risks in using prime brokers, custodians, administrators and other agents. Certain of our investment funds and our Capital Markets and Principal Activities business depend on the services of prime brokers, custodians, administrators and other agents to carry out certain securities transactions. In the event of the insolvency of a prime broker and/or custodian, our funds may not be able to recover equivalent assets in full as they will rank among the prime broker's and custodian's unsecured creditors in relation to assets which the prime broker or custodian borrows, lends or otherwise uses. In addition, our and our funds' cash held with a prime broker or custodian may not be segregated from the prime broker's or custodian's own cash, and our funds therefore may rank as unsecured creditors in relation thereto. The inability to recover assets from the prime broker or custodian could have a material impact on the performance of our funds and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Assets We Manage As an investment manager, we sponsor and manage funds that make investments worldwide on behalf of third-party investors and, in connection with those activities, are required to deploy our own capital in those investments. The investments of these funds are subject to many risks and uncertainties which, to the extent they are material, are discussed below. In addition, we have principal investments and manage those assets on our own behalf. As a result, the gains and losses on such assets are reflected in our net income and the risks set forth below relating to the assets that we manage will directly affect our operating performance. The historical returns attributable to our funds, including those presented in this report, should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our funds or of our future results or of any returns on our common units. We have presented in this report certain information relating to our investment returns, such as net and gross IRRs, multiples of invested capital and realized and unrealized investment values for funds that we have sponsored and managed. The historical and potential future returns of the funds that we manage are not directly linked to returns on KKR Group Partnership Units. Moreover, historical returns of our funds may not be indicative of the future results that you should expect from us, which could negatively impact the fees and incentive amounts received by us from such funds. In particular, our funds' future results may differ significantly from their historical results including for the following reasons: •the rates of returns of our funds reflect unrealized gains as of the applicable valuation date that may never be realized, which may adversely affect the ultimate value realized from those funds' investments; 65 Table of Contents •the historical returns that we present in this report derive largely from the performance of our earlier private equity funds, whereas future fund returns will depend increasingly on the performance of our newer funds, which may have little or no investment track record, and in particular you will not benefit from any value that was created in our funds prior to the KPE Transaction to the extent such value has been realized and we may be required to repay excess amounts previously received in respect of carried interest in our funds if, upon liquidation of the fund, we have received carried interest distributions in excess of the amount to which we were entitled; •the future performance of our funds will be affected by macroeconomic factors, including negative factors arising from disruptions in the global financial markets that were not prevalent in the periods relevant to the historical return data included in this report; •in some historical periods, the rates of return of some of our funds have been positively influenced by a number of investments that experienced a substantial decrease in the average holding period of such investments and rapid and substantial increases in value following the dates on which those investments were made; the actual or expected length of holding periods related to investments is likely longer than such historical periods; those trends and rates of return may not be repeated in the future; •our newly established funds may generate lower returns during the period that they take to deploy their capital; •our funds' returns have benefited from investment opportunities and general market conditions in certain historical periods that may not repeat themselves, and there can be no assurance that our current or future funds will be able to avail themselves of comparable investment opportunities or market conditions; and •we may create new funds and investment products in the future that reflect a different asset mix in terms of allocations among funds, investment strategies, geographic and industry exposure, vintage year and economic terms. In addition, our historical rates of return reflect our historical cost structure, which has varied and may vary further in the future. Certain of our newer funds, for example, have lower fee structures and also have performance hurdles. Future returns will also be affected by the risks described elsewhere in this report, including risks of the industry sectors and businesses in which a particular fund invests and changes in laws. See "—Risks Related to our Business—Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or performance of the investments that we manage or by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could negatively impact our net income and cash flow and adversely affect our financial condition." Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our funds can be subjective and the fair value of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses for our funds. There are no readily ascertainable market prices for a substantial majority of illiquid investments of our investment funds and our finance vehicles. When determining fair values of investments, we use the last reported market price as of the statement of financial condition date for investments that have readily observable market prices. When an investment does not have a readily available market price, the fair value of the investment represents the value, as determined by us in good faith, at which the investment could be sold in an orderly disposition over a reasonable period of time between willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale. There is no single standard for determining fair value in good faith and in many cases fair value is best expressed as a range of fair values from which a single estimate may be derived. When making fair value determinations for our private equity 66 Table of Contents investments, we typically use a market multiples approach that considers a specified financial measure (such as EBITDA) and/or a discounted cash flow analysis. To value our energy and infrastructure investments, we generally utilize a discounted cash flow analysis, while we use a combination of direct income capitalization and discounted cash flow analysis to value our real estate investments. Credit investments are valued using values obtained from dealers or market makers, and where these values are not available, credit investments are valued by us based on ranges of valuations determined by an independent valuation firm. Each of these methodologies requires estimates of key inputs and significant assumptions and judgments. We also consider a range of additional factors that we deem relevant, including the applicability of a control premium or illiquidity discount, the presence of significant unconsolidated assets and liabilities, any favorable or unfavorable tax attributes, the method of likely exit, financial projections, estimates of assumed growth rates, terminal values, discount rates including risk free rates, capital structure, risk premiums and other factors, and determining these factors may involve a significant degree of our management's judgment and the judgment of management of our portfolio companies. Changes in these factors can have a significant effect on the results of the valuation methodologies used to value our portfolio, and our reported fair values for these assets could vary materially if the inputs and other assumptions used from prior quarters were to change significantly. For example, if applicable interest rates rise, then the assumed cost of capital for these assets would be expected to increase under a discounted cash flow analysis, and this effect would negatively impact their valuations if not offset by other factors. Conversely, a fall in interest rates would be expected to positively impact valuations of these assets if not offset by other factors. As a result of the significant assumptions underlying our valuations, our valuations may differ from those of other investors holding the identical investment that we hold. Because valuations, and in particular valuations of investments for which market quotations are not readily available, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have resulted if a ready market had existed. Even if market quotations are available for our investments, such quotations may not reflect the value that we would actually be able to realize because of various factors, including possible illiquidity associated with a large ownership position, subsequent illiquidity in the market for a company's securities, future market price volatility or the potential for a future loss in market value based on poor industry conditions or the market's view of overall company and management performance. Our partners' capital could be adversely affected if the values of investments that we record is materially higher than the values that are ultimately realized upon the disposal of the investments and changes in values attributed to investments from quarter to quarter may result in volatility in our AUM and such changes could materially affect the results of operations that we report from period to period. There can be no assurance that the investment values that we record from time to time will ultimately be realized and that you will be able to realize the investment values that are presented in this report. Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of, or in the stability of the value of, illiquid investments, the fair values of investments reflected in an investment fund's or finance vehicle's net asset value, or NAV, do not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained by us on behalf of the fund or finance vehicle when such investments are realized. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been reflected in prior fund NAVs would result in losses for the applicable fund and the loss of potential carried interest and other fees. Also, if realizations of our investments produce values materially different than the carrying values reflected in prior fund NAVs, fund investors may lose confidence in us, which could in turn result in difficulty in raising capital for future funds. In addition, because we value our entire portfolio only on a quarterly basis, subsequent events that may have a material impact on those valuations may not be reflected until the next quarterly valuation date. 67 Table of Contents Dependence on significant leverage in investments by our funds could adversely affect our ability to achieve attractive rates of return on those investments. Because many of our funds' investments rely heavily on the use of leverage, our ability to achieve attractive rates of return on investments will depend on our continued ability to access sufficient sources of indebtedness at attractive rates. For example, our credit funds use varying degrees of leverage when making investments. Similarly, in many private equity investments, indebtedness may constitute 70% or more of a portfolio company's total debt and equity capitalization, including debt that may be incurred in connection with the investment, and a portfolio company's indebtedness may also increase in recapitalization transactions subsequent to the company's acquisition. The absence of available sources of sufficient debt financing for extended periods of time could therefore materially and adversely affect our funds and our portfolio companies. Also, an increase in either the general levels of interest rates or in the risk spread demanded by sources of indebtedness such as we experienced during 2009 would make it more expensive to finance those investments. In addition, increases in interest rates could decrease the value of fixed-rate debt investments that our finance vehicles or our funds make. Increases in interest rates could also make it more difficult to locate and consummate private equity and other investments because other potential buyers, including operating companies acting as strategic buyers, may be able to bid for an asset at a higher price due to a lower overall cost of capital or their ability to benefit from a higher amount of cost savings following the acquisition of the asset. In addition, a portion of the indebtedness used to finance private equity investments often includes high-yield debt securities issued in the capital markets. Capital markets are volatile, and there may be times when we might not be able to access those markets at attractive rates, or at all, when completing an investment. Investments in highly leveraged entities are also inherently more sensitive to declines in revenues, increases in expenses and interest rates and adverse economic, market and industry developments. The incurrence of a significant amount of indebtedness by an entity could, among other things: •subject the entity to a number of restrictive covenants, terms and conditions, any violation of which would be viewed by creditors as an event of default and could materially impact our ability to realize value from our investment; •allow even moderate reductions in operating cash flow to render it unable to service its indebtedness; •give rise to an obligation to make mandatory prepayments of debt using excess cash flow, which might limit the entity's ability to respond to changing industry conditions to the extent additional cash is needed for the response, to make unplanned but necessary capital expenditures or to take advantage of growth opportunities; •limit the entity's ability to adjust to changing market conditions, thereby placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors who have relatively less debt; •limit the entity's ability to engage in strategic acquisitions that might be necessary to generate attractive returns or further growth; and •limit the entity's ability to obtain additional financing or increase the cost of obtaining such financing, including for capital expenditures, working capital or other general corporate purposes. A leveraged company's income and equity also tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than would otherwise be the case if money had not been borrowed. As a result, the risk of loss associated with a leveraged company is generally greater than for comparable companies with comparatively less debt. For example, leveraged companies could default on their debt obligations due to a decrease in 68 Table of Contents revenues and cash flow precipitated by an economic downturn or by poor relative performance at such a company. When our funds' existing portfolio investments reach the point when debt incurred to finance those investments matures in significant amounts and must be either repaid or refinanced, those investments may materially suffer if they have generated insufficient cash flow to repay maturing debt and there is insufficient capacity and availability in the financing markets to permit them to refinance maturing debt on satisfactory terms, or at all. If the financing for such purposes were to be unavailable or uneconomic when significant amounts of the debt incurred to finance our funds' existing portfolio investments start to come due, these investments could be materially and adversely affected. In the event of default or potential default under applicable financing arrangements, one or more of our portfolio companies may go bankrupt, which could give rise to substantial investment losses, adverse claims or litigation against us or our employees and damage to our reputation. The majority-owned subsidiaries of KFN regularly use and have used significant leverage to finance their assets. An inability by such subsidiaries to continue to raise or utilize leverage, to refinance or extend the maturities of their outstanding indebtedness or to maintain adequate levels of collateral under the terms of their collateralized loan obligations could limit their ability to grow their business, reinvest principal cash, distribute cash to KFN or fully execute their business strategy, and KFN's results of operations may be adversely affected. If KFN is unable to maintain its operating results and access to capital resources, KFN could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet its debt service and other obligations. If we complete our merger with KFN, we may experience similar problems. Among the sectors particularly challenged by downturns in the global credit markets, including the downturn experienced from 2008 through 2010, are the CLO and leveraged finance markets. KFN has, and if we complete our merger with KFN, we will have significant exposure to these markets through its CLO subsidiaries, each of which is a special purpose company that issued to KFN and other investors notes secured by a pool of collateral consisting primarily of corporate leveraged loans. In most cases, KFN's CLO holdings are deeply subordinated, representing the CLO subsidiary's substantial leverage, which increases both the opportunity for higher returns as well as the magnitude of losses when compared to holders or investors that rank more senior to KFN in right of payment. KFN's CLO subsidiaries have historically experienced an increase in downgrades, depreciations in market value and defaults in respect of leveraged loans in their collateral during downturns in credit markets. There can be no assurance that market conditions giving rise to these types of consequences will not occur, re-occur, subsist or become more acute in the future. Because KFN's CLO structures involve complex collateral and other arrangements, the documentation for such structures is complex, is subject to differing interpretations and involves legal risk. In July 2009, KFN surrendered for cancellation approximately $298.4 million in aggregate of notes issued to it by certain of its CLOs. The surrendered notes were cancelled and the obligations due under such notes were deemed extinguished. Our hedge fund-of-funds, long/short equity fund, long/short credit fund, other credit- oriented funds and CLOs may choose to use leverage as part of their respective investment programs and regularly borrow a substantial amount of their capital. The use of leverage poses a significant degree of risk and enhances the possibility of a significant loss in the value of the investment portfolio. A fund may borrow money from time to time to purchase or carry securities or debt obligations or may enter into derivative transactions (such as total return swaps) with counterparties that have embedded leverage. The interest expense and other costs incurred in connection with such borrowing may not be recovered by appreciation in the securities purchased or carried and will be lost—and the timing and magnitude of such losses may be accelerated or exacerbated—in the event of a decline in the market value of such securities or debt obligations. Gains realized with borrowed funds may cause the fund's net asset value to increase at a faster rate than would be the case without borrowings. However, if 69 Table of Contents investment results fail to cover the cost of borrowings, the fund's net asset value could also decrease faster than if there had been no borrowings. Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with our investments may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment. Before making our investments, we conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. The objective of the due diligence process is to identify attractive investment opportunities based on the facts and circumstances surrounding an investment, to identify possible risks associated with that investment and, in the case of private equity investments, to prepare a framework that may be used from the date of an acquisition to drive operational achievement and value creation. When conducting due diligence, we typically evaluate a number of important business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues in determining whether or not to proceed with an investment. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment banks are involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence process may at times be subjective with respect to newly organized companies for which only limited information is available. Instances of bribery, fraud, accounting irregularities and other improper, illegal or corrupt practices can be difficult to detect, and fraud and other deceptive practices can be widespread in certain jurisdictions. Several of our funds invest in emerging market countries that may not have established laws and regulations that are as stringent as in more developed nations, or where existing laws and regulations may not be consistently enforced. For example, our funds invest throughout jurisdictions that have material perceptions of corruption according to international rating standards (such as "Transparency International" and "Corruption Perceptions Index") such as China, India, Indonesia, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. Due diligence on investment opportunities in these jurisdictions is frequently more complicated because consistent and uniform commercial practices in such locations may not have developed. Bribery, fraud, accounting irregularities and corrupt practices can be especially difficult to detect in such locations. The due diligence conducted for certain of our Public Markets strategies is limited to publicly available information. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the due diligence investigation that we will carry out with respect to any investment opportunity will reveal or highlight all relevant facts (including fraud, bribery and other illegal activities and contingent liabilities) that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity, including the existence of contingent liabilities. We also cannot be certain that our due diligence investigations will result in investments being successful or that the actual financial performance of an investment will not fall short of the financial projections we used when evaluating that investment. When we conduct due diligence in making and monitoring investments in third party hedge funds, we rely on information supplied by third party hedge funds or by service providers to such third party hedge funds. The information we receive from them may not be accurate or complete and therefore we may not have all the relevant facts necessary to properly assess and monitor our funds' investment in a particular hedge fund. 70 Table of Contents Our investment management activities involve investments in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets, and we may fail to realize any profits from these activities for a considerable period of time or lose some or all of the capital invested. Many of our funds hold investments in securities that are not publicly traded. In many cases, our funds may be prohibited by contract or by applicable securities laws from selling such securities at many points in time. Our funds will generally not be able to sell these securities publicly unless their sale is registered under applicable securities laws, or unless an exemption from such registration is available, and then only at such times when we do not possess material nonpublic information. The ability of many of our funds to dispose of investments is heavily dependent on the capital markets and in particular the public equity markets. For example, the ability to realize any value from an investment may depend upon the ability to complete an initial public offering of the portfolio company in which such investment is made. Even if the securities are publicly traded, large holdings of securities can often be disposed of only over a substantial length of time, exposing our investment returns to risks of downward movement in market prices during the intended disposition period. In addition, as certain of our funds have a finite term, we could be forced to dispose of investments sooner than otherwise desirable. Accordingly, under certain conditions, our funds may be forced to either sell securities at lower prices than they had expected to realize or defer sales that they had planned to make, potentially for a considerable period of time. We have made and expect to continue to make significant capital investments in our current and future funds. Contributing capital to these funds is risky, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. The investments of our funds are subject to a number of inherent risks. Our results are highly dependent on our continued ability to generate attractive returns from our investments. Investments made by our private equity, credit or other investments involve a number of significant risks inherent to private equity, credit and other investing, including the following: •companies in which investments are made may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their securities, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their equity securities or any collateral or guarantees provided with respect to their debt; •companies in which investments are made are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons and, as a result, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of those persons could have a material adverse impact on their business and prospects; •companies in which investments are made may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; •instances of bribery, fraud and other deceptive practices committed by senior management of portfolio companies in which our funds invest may undermine our due diligence efforts with respect to such companies, and if such fraud is discovered, negatively affect the valuation of a fund's investments as well as contribute to overall market volatility that can negatively impact a fund's investment program; •our funds may make investments that they do not advantageously dispose of prior to the date the applicable fund is dissolved, either by expiration of such fund's term or otherwise, resulting in a lower than expected return on the investments and, potentially, on the fund itself; 71 Table of Contents •our portfolio companies generally have capital structures established on the basis of financial projections based primarily on management judgments and assumptions, and general economic conditions and other factors may cause actual performance to fall short of these financial projections, which could cause a substantial decrease in the value of our equity holdings in the portfolio company and cause our funds' performance to fall short of our expectations; •executive officers, directors and employees of an equity sponsor may be named as defendants in litigation involving a company in which an investment is made or is being made, and we or our funds may indemnify such executive officers, directors or employees for liability relating to such litigation; •we or certain of our investment funds could potentially be held liable under ERISA for the pension obligations of one or more of our portfolio companies if we or the investment fund were determined to be a "trade or business" under ERISA and deemed part of the same "controlled group" as the portfolio company under such rules, and the pension obligations of any particular portfolio company could be material. In a recent decision of a federal appellate court (Sun Capital Partners III LP v. New England Teamsters & Trucking Indus. Pension Fund), a private equity firm was held to be engaged in a "trade or business" under ERISA; •we advise funds that invest in businesses that operate in a variety of industries that are subject to extensive domestic and foreign regulation (including companies that supply services to governmental agencies), such as the telecommunications industry, the defense and government services industry, the healthcare industry and oil and gas industry, that may involve greater risk due to rapidly changing market and governmental conditions in those sectors; and •significant failures of our portfolio companies to comply with laws and regulations applicable to them could affect the ability of our funds to invest in other companies in certain industries in the future and could harm our reputation; Our investments in real assets such as real estate, infrastructure assets and energy may expose us to increased risks and liabilities and may expose our unitholders to adverse tax consequences. Investments in real assets, which may include real estate, infrastructure assets, oil and gas properties and other energy, may expose us to increased risks and liabilities that are inherent in the ownership of real assets. For example, ownership of real assets in our funds or vehicles may increase our risk of liability under environmental laws that impose, regardless of fault, joint and several liability for the cost of remediating contamination and compensation for damages. Ownership of real assets may also present additional risk of liability for personal and property injury or impose significant operating challenges and costs, for example with respect to compliance with zoning, environmental or other applicable laws. Without limiting the foregoing disclosure, we note that investments that we have made and will continue to make in the oil and gas industries may present specific environmental, safety and other inherent risks, and such investments are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations specific to oil and gas industries, for example governing controls, taxes, transportation of oil and natural gas, exploration and production, permitting, and various conservation laws and regulations applicable to oil and natural gas production and related operations in addition to regulations governing occupational health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of orders enjoining some or all of our operations in affected areas. These laws and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production 72 Table of Contents below the rate that would otherwise be possible and increase the cost of production thus reducing profitability. Our oil and gas investments are subject to other risks, such as: •Currently unforeseen environmental incidents may occur or past non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations may be discovered making it difficult to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. •The oil and gas industries present inherent risk of personal and property injury, for which we may not be fully insured. •Our estimated oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids reserve quantities and future production rates are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or the underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and value of our reserves. •The performance of our energy investments depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third party operators. Failure of such operators to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations could result in liabilities to us, reduce the value of our interest in the oil and natural gas properties, adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. •If commodity prices decline and remain depressed for a prolonged period, a significant portion of our development projects may become uneconomic and cause write downs of the value of our oil and natural gas properties, which may reduce the value of our energy investments, have a negative impact on our ability to use these investments as collateral or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Investments in real estate will be subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of real estate and real estate related businesses and assets. These risks include those associated with the burdens of ownership of real property, general and local economic conditions, changes in supply of and demand for competing properties in an area (as a result, for instance, of overbuilding), fluctuations in the average occupancy, the financial resources of tenants, changes in building, environmental and other laws, energy and supply shortages, various uninsured or uninsurable risks, natural disasters, changes in government regulations (such as rent control), changes in real property tax rates, changes in interest rates, the reduced availability of mortgage funds which may render the sale or refinancing of properties difficult or impracticable, negative developments in the economy that depress travel activity, environmental liabilities, contingent liabilities on disposition of assets, terrorist attacks, war and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, if we acquire direct or indirect interests in undeveloped land or underdeveloped real property, which may often be non-income producing, they will be subject to the risks normally associated with such assets and development activities, including risks relating to the availability and timely receipt of zoning and other regulatory or environmental approvals, the cost and timely completion of construction (including risks beyond the control of our fund, such as weather or labor conditions or material shortages) and the availability of both construction and permanent financing on favorable terms. In addition, investments in real assets may cause adverse tax consequences for certain non-U.S. unitholders regarding income effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business and the imposition of certain tax withholding. Please see "—Risks Related to U.S. Taxation—Non-U.S. persons face unique U.S. tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them". Moreover, investments in real assets may also require all our unitholders to file tax returns and pay taxes in various state and local jurisdictions in the U.S. and abroad where these real assets are located. Please see "Risks Related to U.S. Taxation—Holders of our common units may be subject to state, local and foreign taxes and return filing requirements as a result of owning such common units". 73 Table of Contents Certain of our investment funds may invest in securities of companies that are experiencing significant financial or business difficulties, including companies involved in bankruptcy or other reorganization and liquidation proceedings. Such investments may be subject to a greater risk of poor performance or loss. Certain of our investment funds, especially in our special situations strategy, may invest in business enterprises involved in work-outs, liquidations, reorganizations, bankruptcies and similar transactions and may purchase high risk receivables. An investment in such business enterprises entails the risk that the transaction in which such business enterprise is involved either will be unsuccessful, will take considerable time or will result in a distribution of cash or a new security the value of which will be less than the purchase price to the fund of the security or other financial instrument in respect of which such distribution is received. In addition, if an anticipated transaction does not in fact occur, the fund may be required to sell its investment at a loss. Investments in troubled companies may also be adversely affected by U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws relating to, among other things, fraudulent conveyances, voidable preferences, lender liability and a bankruptcy court's discretionary power to disallow, subordinate or disenfranchise particular claims. Investments in securities and private claims of troubled companies made in connection with an attempt to influence a restructuring proposal or plan of reorganization in a bankruptcy case may also involve substantial litigation, which has the potential to adversely impact us or unrelated funds or portfolio companies. Because there is substantial uncertainty concerning the outcome of transactions involving financially troubled companies, there is a potential risk of loss by a fund of its entire investment in such company. Our investment in Nephila is exposed to natural catastrophe and weather risk. Our investment in Nephila, an investment manager focused on investing in natural catastrophe and weather risk, is exposed to a risk of reduced revenues resulting from natural disasters. Because catastrophic loss events are by their nature unpredictable, historical results of operations of Nephila may not be indicative of its future results of operations. As a result of the occurrence of one or more major catastrophes in any given period, the expected returns from this investment may fall short of our expectations. We often pursue investment opportunities that involve business, regulatory, legal or other complexities. As an element of our investment style, we often pursue complex investment opportunities. This can often take the form of substantial business, regulatory or legal complexity that would deter other investment managers. Our tolerance for complexity presents risks, as such transactions can be more difficult, expensive and time-consuming to finance and execute; it can be more difficult to manage or realize value from the assets acquired in such transactions; and such transactions sometimes entail a higher level of regulatory scrutiny, the application of complex tax laws or a greater risk of contingent liabilities. We may cause our funds to acquire an investment that is subject to contingent liabilities, which could be unknown to us at the time of acquisition or, if they are known to us, we may not accurately assess or protect against the risks that they present. Acquired contingent liabilities could thus result in unforeseen losses for our funds. In addition, in connection with the disposition of an investment in a portfolio company, a fund may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of such portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. A fund may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations are inaccurate. These arrangements may result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities by a fund, even after the disposition of an investment. Any of these risks could harm the performance of our funds. 74 Table of Contents Our private equity investments are typically among the largest in the industry, which involves certain complexities and risks that are not encountered in small- and medium-sized investments. Our private equity funds make investments in companies with relatively large capitalizations, which involves certain complexities and risks that are not encountered in small-and medium-sized investments. For example, larger transactions may be more difficult to finance and exiting larger deals may present incremental challenges. In addition, larger transactions may pose greater challenges in implementing changes in the company's management, culture, finances or operations, and may entail greater scrutiny by regulators, interest groups and other third parties. These constituencies may be more active in opposing some larger investments by certain private equity firms. In some transactions, the amount of equity capital that is required to complete a large capitalization private equity transaction may be significant and are required to be structured as a consortium transaction. A consortium transaction involves an equity investment in which two or more other private equity firms serve together or collectively as equity sponsors. While we have sought to limit where possible the amount of consortium transactions in which we have been involved, we have participated in a significant number of those transactions. Consortium transactions generally entail a reduced level of control by our firm over the investment because governance rights must be shared with the other consortium investors. Accordingly, we may not be able to control decisions relating to a consortium investment, including decisions relating to the management and operation of the company and the timing and nature of any exit, which could result in the risks described in "—Our funds have made investments in companies that we do not control, exposing us to the risk of decisions made by others with which we may not agree." Any of these factors could increase the risk that our larger investments could be less successful. The consequences to our investment funds of an unsuccessful larger investment could be more severe given the size of the investment. We and our funds have made investments in companies that we do not control, exposing us to the risk of decisions made by others with which we may not agree. Our funds and accounts hold investments that include debt instruments and equity securities of companies that we do not control and such investments may comprise an increasing part of our business. Such instruments and securities may be acquired by our funds and accounts through trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer. In addition, our funds and accounts may acquire minority equity interests, particularly when making private equity investments in Asia or sponsoring investments as part of a large investor consortium, and may also dispose of a portion of their majority equity investments in portfolio companies over time in a manner that results in the funds or accounts retaining a minority investment. We have made certain minority investments in publicly traded companies. These transactions could be viewed as unwanted, damage our reputation, and consequently impair our ability to source transactions in the future. Those investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree or that the majority stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the value of the investments by our funds or accounts could decrease and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. In addition, many of our investments in our Public Markets funds, vehicles and accounts are in companies or other funds that we do not control. We have also recently made minority investments with our principal assets, for example our interest in Nephila and may in the future acquire interests in other investment managers and businesses. To the extent these businesses fail to comply with applicable regulations or laws or otherwise suffer reputational damage, our reputation may suffer. 75 Table of Contents We make investments in companies that are based outside of the United States, which may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in companies that are based in the United States. Many of our funds, vehicles and accounts invest or have the flexibility to invest a significant portion of their assets in the equity, debt, loans or other securities of issuers that are based outside of the United States. A substantial amount of these investments consist of private equity investments made by our private equity funds. For example, as of December 31, 2013, approximately 51% of the unrealized value of the investments of those funds and accounts was attributable to foreign investments. Investing in companies that are based in countries outside of the United States and, in particular, in emerging markets such as China, India, Turkey, countries in south and southeast Asia, Latin America and Africa, involves risks and considerations that are not typically associated with investments in companies established in the United States. These risks may include the following: •the possibility of exchange control regulations, restrictions on repatriation of profit on investments or of capital invested, political and social instability, nationalization or expropriation of assets; •the imposition of non-U.S. taxes; •differences in the legal and regulatory environment, for example the recognition of information barriers, or enhanced legal and regulatory compliance; •greater levels of corruption and potential exposure to the FCPA and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments, their officials and other third parties; •violations of sanctions regimes; •limitations on borrowings to be used to fund acquisitions or dividends; •limitations on permissible counterparties in our transactions or consolidation rules that effectively restrict the types of businesses in which we may invest; •political risks generally, including political hostility to investments by foreign or private equity investors; •less liquid markets; •reliance on a more limited number of commodity inputs, service providers and/or distribution mechanisms; •adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates and costs associated with conversion of investment principal and income from one currency into another; •higher rates of inflation; •less available current information about an issuer; •higher transaction costs; •less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers; •less developed bankruptcy and other laws; •greater application of concepts like equitable subordination, which may, in bankruptcy or insolvency, result in the subordination of debt or other senior interests held by our investment funds, vehicles or accounts in companies in which our investment funds, vehicles or accounts also hold equity interests; •difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations; 76 Table of Contents •lack of uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards; •less stringent requirements relating to fiduciary duties; •fewer investor protections; and •greater price volatility. As a result of the complexity of and lack of clear laws, precedent or authority with respect to the application of various income tax laws to our structures, the application of rules governing how transactions and structures should be reported is also subject to differing interpretations. In particular, certain jurisdictions, including Denmark, France, South Korea, and Japan, among others, have either proposed or adopted rules that seek to limit the amount of interest that may be deductible where the lender and the borrower are related parties (or where third party borrowings have been guaranteed by a related party) and in the case of Germany, without regard to whether the parties are related, or may seek to interpret existing rules in a more restrictive manner. In addition, the tax authorities of certain countries, such as Germany, Belgium, France, South Korea, and Singapore, have sought to disallow tax deductions for transaction and certain other costs at the portfolio company level either on the basis that the entity claiming the deduction does not benefit from the costs incurred or on other grounds. There is also significant risk in Germany that tax losses and interest carry forwards would lose their value on a change of ownership due to restrictive legislation. These measures will most likely adversely affect portfolio companies in those jurisdictions in which our investment funds have investments, and limit the benefits of additional investments in those countries. Our business is also subject to the risk that similar measures might be introduced in other countries in which our investment funds currently have investments or plan to invest in the future, or that other legislative or regulatory measures that negatively affect their respective portfolio investments might be promulgated in any of the countries in which they invest. In addition, certain countries such as Australia, China, India, Japan and South Korea, where we have made investments, have sought to tax investment gains derived by nonresident investors, including private equity funds, from the disposition of the equity in companies operating in those countries. In some cases this development is the result of new legislation or changes in the interpretation of existing legislation and local authority assertions that investors have a local taxable presence or are holding companies for trading purposes rather than for capital purposes, or are not otherwise entitled to treaty benefits. With respect to India, a general anti-avoidance rule was introduced that would provide a basis for the tax authorities to subject other sales and investments through intermediate holding jurisdictions such as Mauritius to Indian tax. The proposed rule is presently scheduled to become effective for tax years beginning on or after April 1, 2015. Further, the tax authorities in certain countries, such as Australia, Belgium, China, Denmark, Germany, and South Korea have sought to deny the benefits of income tax treaties or EU Directives with respect to withholding taxes on interest and dividends and in the case of South Korea, capital gains, of nonresident entities, on the basis that the entity benefiting from such treaty or Directive is not the owner of the income, is a mere conduit inserted primarily to access treaty benefits or Directives, or otherwise lacks substance. As a result of the complexity of our structures, foreign jurisdictions may seek to tax a material portion of the fee income associated with our management advisory activity. Due to the complexity, sophistication, and global nature of our investment decision making function, foreign jurisdictions may assert that a material amount of fee income was associated with a taxable presence in their jurisdiction and assert that such income is subject to local tax, potentially reducing our profits associated with such income, although this risk may be mitigated by the availability of foreign tax credits. Although we expect that most of the capital commitments of our funds, vehicles and accounts will be denominated in U.S. dollars, our investments and capital commitments that are denominated in a 77 Table of Contents foreign currency, such as euro, will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the ability of countries to pay their national debt, levels of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective or even available at all. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may be exposed to additional risks associated with such transactions. See "—Risk management activities may adversely affect the return on our investments." Third party investors in our funds with commitment-based structures may not satisfy their contractual obligation to fund capital calls when requested by us, which could adversely affect a fund's operations and performance. Investors in certain of our funds make capital commitments to those funds that the funds are entitled to call from those investors at any time during prescribed periods. We depend on fund investors fulfilling their commitments when we call capital from them in order for such funds to consummate investments and otherwise pay their obligations (for example, management fees) when due. Any fund investor that did not fund a capital call would generally be subject to several possible penalties, including having a significant amount of existing investment forfeited in that fund. However, the impact of the penalty is directly correlated to the amount of capital previously invested by the investor in the fund and if an investor has invested little or no capital, for instance early in the life of the fund, then the forfeiture penalty may not be as meaningful. Investors may in the future also negotiate for lesser or reduced penalties at the outset of the fund, thereby inhibiting our ability to enforce the funding of a capital call. If our fund investors were to fail to satisfy a significant amount of capital calls for any particular fund or funds, the operation and performance of those funds could be materially and adversely affected. Our equity investments and many of our debt investments often rank junior to investments made by others, exposing us to greater risk of losing our investment. In many cases, the companies in which our funds invest have, or are permitted to have, outstanding indebtedness or equity securities that rank senior to our fund's investment. By their terms, such instruments may provide that their holders are entitled to receive payments of distributions, interest or principal on or before the dates on which payments are to be made in respect of our investment. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a company in which an investment is made, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before distributions could be made in respect of its investment. In addition, debt investments made by our investment funds, vehicles or accounts in our portfolio companies may be equitably subordinated to the debt investments made by third parties in our portfolio companies. After repaying senior security holders, the company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying amounts owed in respect of our investment. To the extent that any assets remain, holders of claims that rank equally with our investment would be entitled to share on an equal and ratable basis in distributions that are made out of those assets. Also, during periods of financial distress or following an insolvency, the ability of our funds to influence a company's affairs and to take actions to protect their investments may be substantially less than that of the senior creditors. 78 Table of Contents Risk management activities may adversely affect the return on our investments. When managing exposure to market risks, we employ hedging strategies or certain forms of derivative instruments to limit our exposure to changes in the relative values of investments that may result from market developments, including changes in prevailing interest rates and currency exchange rates. The scope of risk management activities undertaken by us varies based on the level and volatility of interest rates, prevailing foreign currency exchange rates, the types of investments that are made and other changing market conditions. The use of hedging transactions and other derivative instruments to reduce the effects of a decline in the value of a position does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the value of the position or prevent losses if the value of the position declines. However, such activities can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of the position. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a position increases. Moreover, it may not be possible to limit the exposure to a market development that is so generally anticipated that a hedging or other derivative transaction cannot be entered into at an acceptable price. The success of any hedging or other derivative transactions that we enter into generally will depend on our ability to correctly predict market changes. As a result, while we may enter into such transactions in order to reduce our exposure to market risks, unanticipated market changes may result in poorer overall investment performance than if the hedging or other derivative transaction had not been executed. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in connection with hedging activities and price movements in a position being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek or be successful in establishing a perfect correlation between the instruments used in hedging or other derivative transactions and the positions being hedged. An imperfect correlation could prevent us from achieving the intended result and could give rise to a loss. In addition, it may not be possible to fully or perfectly limit our exposure against all changes in the value of its investments, because the value of investments is likely to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which will be beyond our control or ability to hedge. The CFTC has proposed or adopted regulations governing swaps and security- based swaps, which may limit our trading activities and our ability to implement effective hedging strategies or increase the costs of compliance. See "Risks Related to Our Business—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could result in additional burdens on our business." Certain of our funds may make a limited number of investments, or investments that are concentrated in certain geographic regions or asset types, which could negatively affect their performance to the extent those concentrated investments perform poorly. The governing agreements of our funds contain only limited investment restrictions and only limited requirements as to diversification of fund investments, either by geographic region or asset type. Our private equity funds generally permit up to 20% of the fund to be invested in a single company. During periods of difficult market conditions or slowdowns in these sectors or geographic regions, decreased revenues, difficulty in obtaining access to financing and increased funding costs may be exacerbated by this concentration of investments, which would result in lower investment returns. Because a significant portion of a fund's capital may be invested in a single investment or portfolio company, a loss with respect to such investment or portfolio company could have a significant adverse impact on such fund's capital. Accordingly, a lack of diversification on the part of a fund could adversely affect a fund's performance and therefore, our financial condition and results of operations. 79 Table of Contents Because we hold interests in some of our portfolio companies both through our management of private equity funds as well as through separate investments in those funds and direct co-investments, fluctuation in the fair values of these portfolio companies may have a disproportionate impact on the investment income earned by us. We hold interests in some of our portfolio companies through our management of private equity funds in our Private Markets segment, as well as through separate investments in those funds and co-investments in certain portfolio companies of such funds, in our Capital Markets and Principal Activities segment. As of December 31, 2013, we hold significant aggregate investments in each of Alliance Boots GmbH, HCA Inc. and First Data Corporation, which each represent more than 5% of our Capital Markets and Principal Activities segment investment balance. As a result of our disproportionate investment in these companies, or any other portfolio companies for which similar investments are held in the future, any fluctuation in the fair values of these portfolio companies may have a disproportionate impact on the investment income earned by us as compared to other portfolio companies. Our business activities may give rise to a conflict of interest with our funds. As we have expanded and as we continue to expand the number and scope of our businesses, we increasingly confront potential conflicts of interest relating to investment activities among our various funds and also our own account. For example, •In pursuing the interest of our fund investors, we may take actions that could reduce our AUM or our profits that we could otherwise realize in the short term. •We may be required to allocate investment opportunities among investment vehicles that may have overlapping investment objectives, including vehicles that may have different fee structures, and among KKR co-investment vehicles (including vehicles in which KKR employees may investment) and third party co-investors. •We may, on behalf of our funds or KKR itself, buy, sell, hold or otherwise deal with securities or other investments that may be purchased, sold or held by our other funds or that are otherwise issued by a portfolio company in which our funds invest. Conflicts of interest may arise between a fund, on one hand, and KKR on the other or among our funds including but not limited to those relating to the purchase or sale of investments, the structuring of, or exercise of rights with respect to investment transactions and the advice we provide to our funds. •We may invest on behalf of our fund or for our own account in a portfolio company of one fund that is a competitor, service provider, supplier, customer, or other counterparty with respect to a portfolio company of another fund. •We may structure an investment in a manner that may be attractive to fund investors or to KKR Holdings L.P., from a tax perspective but that may require corporate taxation to unitholders. •A decision to acquire material non-public information about a company while pursuing an investment opportunity for a particular fund or our own account may result in our having to restrict the ability of other funds to take any action. •Our fiduciary obligations to our fund investors may preclude us from pursuing attractive proprietary investment opportunities, in particular as we enter into strategic relationships with broad investment mandates similar to the investments we make with our principal assets. •Conflicts may arise in allocating time, services or resources among the investment activities of our funds, KKR, other KKR-affiliated entities and the employees of KKR. 80 Table of Contents •Our principals have made personal investments in a variety of our investment funds, which may result in conflicts of interest among investors of our funds or unitholders regarding investment decisions for these funds. •The general partner's entitlement to receive carried interest from many of our funds may create an incentive for that general partner to make riskier and more speculative investments on behalf of a fund than would be the case in the absence of such an arrangement. In addition, for our funds that pay carried interest based on accrued rather than realized gains, the amount of carried interest to which the general partner is entitled and the timing of its receipt of carried interest will depend on the valuation by the general partner of the fund's investment. •From time to time, one of our funds may seek to effect a purchase or sale of an investment with one or more of our other funds in a so-called "cross transaction". •The investors in our investment vehicles are based in a wide variety of jurisdictions and take a wide variety of forms, and consequently have diverging interests among themselves from a regulatory, tax or legal perspective or with respect to investment policies and target risk/return profiles. •We or our affiliates, including our capital markets business, may receive fees or other compensation in connection with specific transactions or different clients that may give rise to conflicts. The decision to take on an opportunity in one of our businesses may, as a practical matter, also limit the ability of one or our other businesses to take advantage of other related opportunities. In addition, our funds and accounts also invest in a broad range of asset classes throughout the corporate capital structure. These investments include investments in corporate loans and debt securities, preferred equity securities and common equity securities. In certain cases, we may manage separate funds or accounts that invest in different parts of the same company's capital structure. For example, our credit funds may invest in different classes of the same company's debt and may make debt investments in a company that is owned by one of our private equity funds. In those cases, the interests of our funds and accounts may not always be aligned, which could create actual or potential conflicts of interest or the appearance of such conflicts. For example, one of our private equity funds could have an interest in pursuing an acquisition, divestiture or other transaction that, in its judgment, could enhance the value of the private equity investment, even though the proposed transaction would subject one of our credit fund's debt investments to additional or increased risks. Finally, our ability to effectively implement a public securities strategy may be limited to the extent that contractual obligations entered into in the ordinary course of our private equity business impose restrictions on our engaging in transactions that we may be interested in otherwise pursuing. We may also cause different investment funds to invest in a single portfolio company, for example where the fund that made an initial investment no longer has capital available to invest. Conflicts may also arise where we make principal investments for our own account or permit employees to invest alongside our investment vehicles or our balance sheet for their own account. In certain cases, we may require that a transaction or investment be approved by fund investors or their advisory committees, be approved by an independent valuation expert, be subject to a fairness opinion, be based on arms-length pricing data or be calculated in accordance with a formula provided for in a fund's governing documents prior to the completion of the relevant transaction to address potential conflicts of interest. Such instances include principal transactions where we or our affiliates warehouse an investment in a portfolio company for the benefit of one or more of our funds or accounts pending the contribution of committed capital by the investors in such funds or accounts, follow-on investments by a fund other than a fund which made an initial investment in a company or transactions in which we arrange for one of our funds or accounts to buy a security from, or sell a security to, another one of our funds or accounts. 81 Table of Contents Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and we could suffer reputational damage or potential liability if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts as they arise. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our reputation which could in turn materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including as a result of an inability to raise additional funds and a reluctance of counterparties to do business with us. If KFN were deemed to be an "investment company" subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business would be adversely affected if KFN, the publicly traded specialty finance company managed by us and with which we have signed a merger agreement, was to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act. A person will generally be deemed to be an "investment company" for purposes of the Investment Company Act if, absent an available exception or exemption, it (i) is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or (ii) owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We believe KFN is not and does not propose to be primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and we do not believe that KFN has held itself out as such. KFN conducts its operations primarily through its majority-owned subsidiaries, each of which is either outside of the definition of an investment company as defined in the Investment Company Act or excepted from such definition under the Investment Company Act. KFN monitors its holdings regularly to confirm its continued compliance with the 40% test described in clause (ii) above, and restricts its subsidiaries with respect to the assets in which each of them can invest and/or the types of securities each of them may issue in order to ensure conformity with exceptions provided by, and rules and regulations promulgated under, the Investment Company Act. If the SEC were to disagree with KFN's treatment of one or more of its subsidiaries as being excepted from the Investment Company Act, with its determination that one or more of its other holdings are not investment securities for purposes of the 40% test, or with its determinations as to the nature of its business or the manner in which it holds itself out, KFN and/or one or more of its subsidiaries could be required either (i) to change substantially the manner in which it conducts its operations to avoid being subject to the Investment Company Act or (ii) to register as an investment company. Either of these would likely have a material adverse effect on KFN, its ability to service its indebtedness and to make distributions on its shares, and on the market price of its shares and securities, and could thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On August 31, 2011 the SEC published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding Rule 3a-7 and a concept release seeking information on Section 3(c)(5)(C), two provisions with which KFN's subsidiaries must comply under the 40% test described above. Among the issues for which the SEC has requested comment is whether Rule 3a-7 should be modified so that parent companies of subsidiaries that rely on Rule 3a-7 should treat their interests in such subsidiaries as investment securities for purposes of the 40% test. The SEC is also seeking information about the nature of entities that invest in mortgages and mortgage-related pools and how the SEC staff's interpretive positions in connection with Section 3(c)(5)(C) affect these entities. Any guidance or action from the SEC or its staff, including changes that the SEC may ultimately propose and adopt to the way Rule 3a-7 applies to entities or new or modified interpretive positions related to Section 3(c)(5)(C), could further inhibit KFN's ability, or the ability of any of its subsidiaries, to pursue its current or future operating strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on KFN and on us. 82 Table of Contents Investors in certain of our Public Markets funds may redeem their investments in these funds with minimal notice. Investors in our funds of funds along with those in our long/short equity strategy, long/short credit strategy and similar investment vehicles may generally submit redemptions to redeem their investments on a quarterly basis following the expiration of a specified period of time or in certain cases capital may be withdrawn earlier subject to a fee, in each case subject to the applicable fund's specific redemption provisions. For certain KKR Prisma funds managed as part of a single investor's mandate the length of time to redeem an investment may vary and will depend on the liquidity constraints of each KKR Prisma fund's underlying portfolio. Factors which could result in investors leaving our funds include changes in interest rates that make other investments more attractive, changes in investor perception regarding our focus or alignment of interest, unhappiness with a fund's performance or investment strategy, changes in our reputation, departures or changes in responsibilities of key investment professionals, performance and liquidity needs of fund investors. In a declining market or period of economic disruption or uncertainty, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in our AUM could accelerate. The decrease in revenues that would result from significant redemptions from our funds of funds or other similar investment vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, net income and cash flows. A portion of assets invested in our fund of hedge funds strategy are managed through separately managed accounts or entities structured for investment by one investor or related investors whereby we earn management and incentive fees, and we intend to continue to seek additional separately managed account or single entity mandates. The investment management agreements we enter into in connection with managing separately managed accounts or entities on behalf of certain clients may be terminated by such clients on as little as 30 days' prior written notice, or less in certain prescribed circumstances. In addition, the boards of directors of the certain funds we manage could terminate our advisory engagement of those companies, on as little as 30 days' prior written notice. Similarly, we provide subadvisory services to other investment advisors and managers. Such investment advisors and managers could terminate our subadvisory agreements on as little as 30 days' prior written notice. In the case of any such terminations, the management and incentive fees we earn in connection with managing such account or company would immediately cease, which could result in a significant adverse impact on our revenues. A fund of funds is subject to risks related to the limited rights it has to withdraw, transfer or otherwise liquidate its investments from the underlying hedge funds or other funds in which it invests. Hedge funds, including those in which our fund of funds are invested and the hedge funds we offer to our fund investors, may make investments or hold trading positions in markets that are volatile and which may become illiquid. Timely divestiture or sale of trading positions can be impaired by decreased trading volume, increased price volatility, concentrated trading positions, limitations on the ability to transfer positions in highly specialized or structured transactions to which they may be a party, and changes in industry and government regulations. It may be impossible or costly for hedge funds to liquidate positions rapidly in order to meet margin calls, withdrawal requests or otherwise, particularly if there are other market participants seeking to dispose of similar assets at the same time or the relevant market is otherwise moving against a position or in the event of trading halts or daily price movement limits on the market or otherwise. Moreover, these risks may be exacerbated for funds of funds such as those we manage. For example, if one of our funds of funds were to invest a significant portion of its assets in two or more hedge funds that each had illiquid positions in the same issuer, the illiquidity risk for our funds of hedge funds would be compounded. In 2008 many hedge funds experienced significant declines in value. In many cases, these declines in value were both provoked and exacerbated by margin calls and forced selling of assets, often at distressed prices. Moreover, certain funds of funds were invested in hedge funds that halted redemptions in the face of illiquidity and other issues, which precluded those 83 Table of Contents funds of funds from receiving their capital back on request. There can be no guarantee that such a situation would not recur, particularly in times of market distress. Terms of the governing documents in may also limit a fund of funds' ability to withdraw, transfer or otherwise liquidate their investments in underlying portfolio funds. Under the terms of the governing documents of the relevant portfolio funds or other investments, the ability of a fund of funds or account to redeem any amount invested therein may be subject to certain restrictions and conditions, including restrictions on the redemption of capital for an initial period, restrictions on the amount of redemptions and the frequency with which redemptions can be made, and investment minimums that must be maintained. Additionally, portfolio funds typically reserve the right to reduce ("gate") or suspend redemptions, to set aside ("side pocket") capital that cannot be redeemed for so long as an event or circumstance has not occurred or ceased to exist, respectively, and to satisfy redemptions by making distributions in-kind, under certain circumstances. The ability of our funds of funds or accounts to redeem portfolio fund interests may be adversely affected to varying degrees by such restrictions depending on, among other things, the length of any restricted periods imposed by the portfolio fund, the amount and timing of a requested redemption in relation to the time remaining of any restricted periods imposed by portfolio funds, the aggregate amount of redemption requests, the next regularly scheduled redemption dates of such portfolio funds, the imposition of "gates" or suspensions, the use of "side pockets", the decision by a portfolio fund to satisfy redemptions in-kind, and the satisfaction of other conditions. In addition, certain funds in our Public Markets business are registered under the Investment Company Act as management investment companies. These funds and KKR Asset Management LLC, which serves as their investment adviser (or, in the case of the business development company, as its sub-adviser), are subject to the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder. One of these funds is a New York Stock Exchange-listed closed-end fund. In addition, the management fees we are paid for managing the investment company will generally be subject to contractual rights the company's board of directors (or, in the case of the business development company we manage, the investment adviser) has to terminate our management of an account on as short as 60 days' prior notice. Termination of these agreements would reduce the fees we earn from the relevant funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Investments by our fund of funds, long/short equity strategy, long/short credit strategy and any other hedge funds and similar investment vehicles are subject to numerous additional risks. Investments by one or more hedge funds and investment vehicles with similar characteristics that we currently advise or may organize in the future are subject to numerous additional risks, including the following: •Our long/short equity and long/short credit strategies are newly established without any operating history, and we do not have any significant track record as a hedge fund manager. •Generally, there are few limitations on the execution of investment strategies of a hedge fund or fund of funds, which are subject to the sole discretion of the management company or the general partner of such funds. •Hedge funds may engage in short selling, which is subject to theoretically unlimited loss, in that the price of the underlying security could theoretically increase without limit, thus increasing the cost of buying those securities to cover the short position. There can be no assurance that the security necessary to cover a short position will be available for purchase. Purchasing securities to close out the short position can itself cause the price of the securities to rise further, thereby exacerbating the loss. 84 Table of Contents •Hedge funds and investment vehicles with similar characteristics are exposed to the risk that a counterparty will not settle a transaction in accordance with its terms and conditions because of a dispute over the terms of the contract (whether or not bona fide) or because of a credit or liquidity problem, thus causing the fund to suffer a loss. Counterparty risk is accentuated for contracts with longer maturities where events may intervene to prevent settlement, or where the fund has concentrated its transactions with a single or small group of counterparties. Generally, hedge funds and investment vehicles with similar characteristics are not restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of their transactions with one counterparty. Moreover, the fund's internal consideration of the creditworthiness of their counterparties may prove insufficient. The absence of a regulated market to facilitate settlement may increase the potential for losses. •Credit risk may arise through a default by one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution causes a series of defaults by the other institutions. This systemic risk may adversely affect the financial intermediaries (such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges) with which the hedge funds and investment vehicles with similar characteristics interact on a daily basis. •The efficacy of investment and trading strategies depend largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of financial instruments. A hedge fund's trading orders may not be executed in a timely and efficient manner due to various circumstances, including systems failures or human error. In such event, the funds might only be able to acquire some but not all of the components of the position, or if the overall position were to need adjustment, the funds might not be able to make such adjustment. As a result, the funds would not be able to achieve the market position selected by the management company or general partner of such funds, and might incur a loss in liquidating their position. •Hedge funds and funds of funds are subject to risks due to potential illiquidity of assets. Hedge funds and funds of funds, directly or indirectly, may make investments in restricted or illiquid investments or hold trading positions in markets that are volatile and which may become illiquid. Timely divestiture or sale of trading positions can be impaired by registration requirements, decreased trading volume, increased price volatility, concentrated trading positions, limitations on the ability to transfer positions in highly specialized or structured transactions to which they may be a party, and changes in industry and government regulations. It may be impossible or costly for hedge funds or funds of funds to liquidate positions rapidly in order to meet margin calls, redemption requests or otherwise, particularly if there are other market participants seeking to dispose of similar assets at the same time or the relevant market is otherwise moving against a position or in the event of trading halts or daily price movement limits on the market or otherwise. In addition in a declining market or in the event fund investors otherwise demand greater liquidity, the pace of redemptions could accelerate requiring hedge funds or funds of funds to sell assets on unfavorable terms. •Hedge fund investments are also subject to risks relating to investments in commodities, futures, options and other derivatives, the prices of which are highly volatile and may be subject to the theoretically unlimited risk of loss in certain circumstances, including if the fund writes a call option. Price movements of commodities, futures and options contracts and payments pursuant to swap agreements are influenced by, among other things, interest rates, changing supply and demand relationships, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies of governments and national and international political and economic events and policies. The value of futures, options and swap agreements also depends upon the price of the commodities underlying them. In addition, hedge funds' assets are subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges on which their positions trade or of their clearinghouses or counterparties. Most 85 Table of Contents U.S. commodities exchanges limit fluctuations in certain commodity interest prices during a single day by imposing "daily price fluctuation limits" or "daily limits," the existence of which may reduce liquidity or effectively curtail trading in particular markets. Our fund of hedge fund business may also be subject to and may subject our firm to extensive regulations, including those of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the regulations described under "—Risks Related to Our Business—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could result in additional burdens on our business". Risks Related to Our Common Units As a limited partnership, we qualify for some exemptions from the corporate governance and other requirements of the NYSE. We are a limited partnership and, as a result, qualify for exceptions from certain corporate governance and other requirements of the rules of the NYSE. Pursuant to these exceptions, limited partnerships may elect, and we have elected, not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirements: (i) that the listed company have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; (ii) that the listed company have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (iii) that the compensation committee be required to consider certain independence factors when engaging compensation consultants, legal counsel and other committee advisers. In addition, as a limited partnership, we are not required to obtain unitholder approval for (a) the issuance of common units to certain related parties where the number of common units exceeds one percent of the outstanding common units or voting power, (b) the issuance of common units that equals or exceeds 20% of the outstanding common units or voting power, or (c) a change of control transaction, and we are not required to hold annual unitholder meetings. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to equity holders of entities that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Our founders are able to determine the outcome of any matter that may be submitted for a vote of our limited partners. As of February 18, 2014, KKR Holdings owns 404,369,018 KKR Group Partnership Units, and our senior principals generally have sufficient voting power to determine the outcome of those few matters that may be submitted for a vote of the holders of our common units, including a merger or consolidation of our business, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets and amendments to our partnership agreement that may be material to holders of our common units. In addition, our limited partnership agreement contains provisions that enable us to take actions that would materially and adversely affect all holders of our common units or a particular class of holders of common units upon the majority vote of all outstanding voting units, and since more than a majority of our voting units are controlled by KKR Holdings, KKR Holdings has the ability to take actions that could materially and adversely affect the holders of our common units either as a whole or as a particular class. 86 Table of Contents The voting rights of holders of our common units are further restricted by provisions in our limited partnership agreement stating that any of our common units held by a person that beneficially owns 20% or more of any class of our common units then outstanding (other than our Managing Partner or its affiliates, or a direct or subsequently approved transferee of our Managing Partner or its affiliates) cannot be voted on any matter. Our limited partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of the holders of our common units to call meetings, to acquire information about our operations, and to influence the manner or direction of our management. Our limited partnership agreement does not restrict our Managing Partner's ability to take actions that may result in our partnership being treated as an entity taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal (and applicable state) income tax purposes. Furthermore, holders of our common units would not be entitled to dissenters' rights of appraisal under our limited partnership agreement or applicable Delaware law in the event of a merger or consolidation, a sale of substantially all of our assets or any other transaction or event. Our limited partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce or eliminate duties (including fiduciary duties) of our Managing Partner and limit remedies available to unitholders for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of duty. It will be difficult for unitholders to successfully challenge a resolution of a conflict of interest by our Managing Partner or by its conflicts committee. Our limited partnership agreement contains provisions that require holders of our common units to waive or consent to conduct by our Managing Partner and its affiliates that might otherwise raise issues about compliance with fiduciary duties or applicable law. For example, our limited partnership agreement provides that when our Managing Partner is acting in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our Managing Partner, it may act without any fiduciary obligations to holders of our common units, whatsoever. When our Managing Partner, in its capacity as our general partner, or our conflicts committee is permitted to or required to make a decision in its "sole discretion" or "discretion" or that it deems "necessary or appropriate" or "necessary or advisable," then our Managing Partner or the conflicts committee will be entitled to consider only such interests and factors as it desires, including its own interests, and will have no duty or obligation (fiduciary or otherwise) to give any consideration to any interest of or factors affecting us or any holder of our common units and will not be subject to any different standards imposed by our limited partnership agreement, the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, which is referred to as the Delaware Limited Partnership Act, or under any other law, rule or regulation or in equity. These standards reduce the obligations to which our Managing Partner would otherwise be held. See also "—We are a Delaware limited partnership, and there are provisions in our limited partnership agreement regarding exculpation and indemnification of our officers and directors that differ from the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL) in a manner that may be less protective of the interests of our common unitholders." The above modifications of fiduciary duties are expressly permitted by Delaware law. Hence, we and holders of our common units will only have recourse and be able to seek remedies against our Managing Partner if our Managing Partner breaches its obligations pursuant to our limited partnership agreement. Unless our Managing Partner breaches its obligations pursuant to our limited partnership agreement, we and holders of our common units will not have any recourse against our Managing Partner even if our Managing Partner were to act in a manner that was inconsistent with traditional fiduciary duties. Furthermore, even if there has been a breach of the obligations set forth in our limited partnership agreement, our limited partnership agreement provides that our Managing Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable to us or holders of our common units, for errors of judgment or for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our Managing Partner or its officers and directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. These provisions are detrimental to the holders of our common units because they restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions that without such limitations might constitute breaches of duty including fiduciary duties. 87 Table of Contents Whenever a potential conflict of interest exists between us and our Managing Partner, our Managing Partner may resolve such conflict of interest. If our Managing Partner determines that its resolution of the conflict of interest is on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or is fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships between us and our Managing Partner, then it will be presumed that in making this determination, our Managing Partner acted in good faith. A holder of our common units seeking to challenge this resolution of the conflict of interest would bear the burden of overcoming such presumption. This is different from the situation with Delaware corporations, where a conflict resolution by an interested party would be presumed to be unfair and the interested party would have the burden of demonstrating that the resolution was fair. Also, if our Managing Partner obtains the approval of the conflicts committee of our Managing Partner, the resolution will be conclusively deemed to be fair and reasonable to us and not a breach by our Managing Partner of any duties it may owe to us or holders of our common units. This is different from the situation with Delaware corporations, where a conflict resolution by a committee consisting solely of independent directors may, in certain circumstances, merely shift the burden of demonstrating unfairness to the plaintiff. If you purchase, receive or otherwise hold a common unit, you will be treated as having consented to the provisions set forth in our limited partnership agreement, including provisions regarding conflicts of interest situations that, in the absence of such provisions, might be considered a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. As a result, unitholders will, as a practical matter, not be able to successfully challenge an informed decision by the conflicts committee. We have also agreed to indemnify our Managing Partner and any of its affiliates and any member, partner, tax matters partner, officer, director, employee agent, fiduciary or trustee of our partnership, our Managing Partner or any of our affiliates and certain other specified persons, to the fullest extent permitted by law, against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, joint or several, expenses (including legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, penalties, interest, settlements or other amounts incurred by our Managing Partner or these other persons. We have agreed to provide this indemnification unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that these persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. We have also agreed to provide this indemnification for criminal proceedings. Our Managing Partner may exercise its right to call and purchase common units as provided in our limited partnership agreement or assign this right to one of its affiliates or to us. Our Managing Partner may use its own discretion, free of fiduciary duty restrictions, in determining whether to exercise this right. As a result, a unitholder may have his common units purchased from him at an undesirable time or price. For additional information, see our limited partnership agreement filed as an exhibit to this annual report. Any claims, suits, actions or proceedings concerning the matters described above or any other matter arising out of or relating in any way to the limited partnership agreement may only be brought in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or, if such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction thereof, any other court in the State of Delaware with subject matter jurisdiction. The market price and trading volume of our common units may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our common unitholders. The market price of our common units may be highly volatile, could be subject to wide fluctuations and could decline significantly in the future. In addition, the trading volume in our common units may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common units declines significantly, you may be unable to sell your common units at an attractive 88 Table of Contents price, if at all. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our common units or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common units include: •variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions, which may be substantial; •our policy of taking a long-term perspective on making investment, operational and strategic decisions, which is expected to result in significant and unpredictable variations in our quarterly returns; •failure to meet analysts' earnings estimates; •publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units sufficiently; •additions or departures of our principals and other key management personnel; •adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •speculation in the press or investment community; •changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; •a lack of liquidity in the trading of our common units; •adverse publicity about the investment management or private equity industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; and •general market and economic conditions. An investment in our common units is not an investment in any of our funds, and the assets and revenues of our funds are not directly available to us. Our common units are securities of KKR & Co. L.P. only. While our historical consolidated and combined financial information includes financial information, including assets and revenues, of certain funds on a consolidated basis, and our future financial information will continue to consolidate certain of these funds, such assets and revenues are available to the fund and not to us except to a limited extent through management fees, carried interest or other incentive income, distributions and other proceeds arising from agreements with funds, as discussed in more detail in this report. Our common unit price may decline due to the large number of common units eligible for future sale, for exchange, and issuable pursuant to our equity incentive plan and acquisitions. The market price of our common units could decline as a result of sales of a large number of common units in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell common units in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of February 18, 2014, we have 288,143,327 common units outstanding, which amount excludes common units beneficially owned by KKR Holdings in the form of KKR Group Partnership Units discussed below and common units available for future issuance under the KKR & Co. L.P. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, which we refer to as our Equity Incentive Plan. As of February 18, 2014, KKR Holdings owns 404,369,018 KKR Group Partnership Units that may be exchanged, on a quarterly basis, for our common units on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary 89 Table of Contents conversion rate adjustments for splits, unit distributions and reclassifications. Except for interests held by our founders and certain interests held by other principals that were vested upon grant, interests in KKR Holdings that are held by our principals are subject to time based vesting or performance based vesting and, following such vesting, additional restrictions in certain cases on exchanges for a period of one or two years. During 2013, 28,952,216 previously unvested units in KKR Holdings vested. The market price of our common units could decline as a result of the exchange or the perception that an exchange may occur of a large number of KKR Group Partnership Units for our common units. These exchanges, or the possibility that these exchanges may occur, also might make it more difficult for holders of our common units to sell our common units in the future at a time and at a price that they deem appropriate. In addition, we will continue to issue additional common units pursuant to our Equity Incentive Plan. The total number of common units which may be issued under our Equity Incentive Plan is equivalent to 15% of the number of fully exchanged and diluted common units outstanding as of the beginning of the year. The amount may be increased each year to the extent that we issue additional equity. In addition, our limited partnership agreement authorizes us to issue an unlimited number of additional partnership securities and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to partnership securities for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our Managing Partner in its sole discretion without the approval of our unitholders, including awards representing our common units under the Equity Incentive Plan. See "Executive Compensation—KKR & Co. L.P. Equity Incentive Plan". In accordance with the Delaware Limited Partnership Act and the provisions of our partnership agreement, we may also issue additional partner interests that have designations, preferences, rights, powers and duties that are different from, and may be senior to, those applicable to our common units. Similarly, the partnership agreements of the KKR Group Partnerships authorize the general partners of the KKR Group Partnerships to issue an unlimited number of additional securities of the KKR Group Partnerships with such designations, preferences, rights, powers and duties that are different from, and may be senior to, those applicable to the KKR Group Partnerships Units, and which may be exchangeable for KKR Group Partnership Units. In addition, we have and may continue to issue and sell common units of KKR & Co. L.P. to generate cash proceeds to pay withholding taxes, social benefit payments or similar payments payable by us in respect of awards granted pursuant to the Equity Incentive Plan or the amount of cash delivered in respect of awards granted pursuant to the Equity Incentive Plan that are settled in cash instead of common units. We have used and in the future may continue to use common units as consideration in acquisitions and strategic investments. In connection with the proposed merger with KFN and the acquisition of Avoca, we expect to exchange or issue a significant number of common units. In addition, in connection with the KKR Prisma and Nephila transactions, we may make certain contingent payments in the form of common units. If our valuations of these transactions are not accurate or if the value of these acquisitions and investments is not realized, our distributions per common unit and the value of our common units may decline. As of February 18, 2014, (i) in connection with KKR's pending merger with KFN, which is subject to closing, KKR would issue approximately 104.5 million common units of KKR & Co. L.P. if such merger were to be completed, (ii) in connection with KKR's acquisition of Avoca, KKR is obligated to issue up to 5.0 million common units (a portion of which is issuable upon the election of the holders of certain convertible securities issued upon consummation of such acquisition, and a portion of which is subject to three-year, ratable annual vesting and a substantially concurrent three-year restriction on transfer, subject to accelerated vesting and forfeiture), (iii) in connection with KKR's acquisitions and investments, KKR may elect to issue common units for a portion of the contingent payments that KKR may become obligated to deliver in the future, and (iv) KKR is obligated to issue common units upon the vesting of equity awards issued under KKR's Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, as of February 18, 2014, KKR may issue (i) up to 1.7 million common units as registered on its registration statement on Form S-3 (no. 333-187894) in respect of withholding taxes and cash-settled equity awards as described therein and elsewhere in this report; 90 Table of Contents (ii) up to 1.4 million common units under the Equity Incentive Plan that were not registered on KKR's registration statement on Form S-8 (no. 333-171601), and (iii) up to 404.4 million common units pursuant to KKR's exchange agreement with KKR Holdings and the other parties thereto. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our Managing Partner, our affiliates and us. Our Managing Partner and our affiliates have limited fiduciary duties to us and the holders of KKR Group Partnership Units, which may permit them to favor their own interests to our detriment and that of the holders of KKR Group Partnership Units. Our Managing Partner, which is our general partner, will manage the business and affairs of our business, and will be governed by a board of directors that is co-chaired by our founders, who also serve as our Co-Chief Executive Officers. Conflicts of interest may arise among our Managing Partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our Managing Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over us and our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following: •Our Managing Partner indirectly through its holding of controlling entities determines the amount and timing of the KKR Group Partnership's investments and dispositions, cash expenditures, including those relating to compensation, indebtedness, issuances of additional partner interests, tax liabilities and amounts of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to holders of KKR Group Partnership Units; •Our Managing Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its duties, including fiduciary duties, to us. For example, our affiliates that serve as the general partners of our funds or as broker-dealers have fiduciary and/or contractual obligations to our fund investors or other third parties. Such obligations may cause such affiliates to regularly take actions with respect to the allocation of investments among our investment funds (including funds that have different fee structures), the purchase or sale of investments in our investment funds, the structuring of investment transactions for those funds and the advice and services we provide that comply with these fiduciary and contractual obligations but that might adversely affect our near-term results of operations or cash flow. Our Managing Partner will have no obligation to intervene in, or to notify us of, such actions by such affiliates; •Because certain of our principals indirectly hold their KKR Group Partnership Units through KKR Holdings L.P. and its subsidiaries, which are not subject to corporate income taxation and we hold some of the KKR Group Partnership Units through one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries that are taxable as a corporation, conflicts may arise between our principals and us relating to the selection and structuring of investments or transactions, declaring distributions and other matters; without limiting the foregoing, certain investments made by us or through our funds may be determined to be held through KKR Management Holdings L.P., which would result in less taxation to our principals who are limited partners in KKR Holdings as compared to our unitholders; •Our Managing Partner, including its directors and officers, has limited its and their liability and reduced or eliminated its and their duties, including fiduciary duties, under our partnership agreement to the fullest extent permitted by law, while also restricting the remedies available to holders of common units for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of duty, including fiduciary duties. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our Managing Partner, including its directors and officers, and our Managing Partner's affiliates to the fullest extent permitted by law, except with respect to conduct involving bad faith, fraud or willful misconduct; 91 Table of Contents •Our partnership agreement does not restrict our Managing Partner from paying us or our affiliates for any services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any such additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us as determined under our partnership agreement. Neither our limited partnership agreement nor any of the other agreements, contracts and arrangements between us on the one hand, and our Managing Partner and its affiliates on the other, are or will be the result of arm's-length negotiations. The conflicts committee will be responsible for, among other things, enforcing our rights and those of our unitholders under certain agreements against KKR Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries and designees, a general partner or limited partner of KKR Holdings, or a person who holds a partnership or equity interest in the foregoing entities; •Our Managing Partner and its affiliates will have no obligation to permit us to use any facilities or assets of our Managing Partner and its affiliates, except as may be provided in contracts entered into specifically dealing with such use. There will not be any obligation of our Managing Partner and its affiliates to enter into any contracts of this kind. •Our Managing Partner determines how much debt we incur and that decision may adversely affect any credit ratings we receive; •Our Managing Partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; •Other than as set forth in the confidentiality and restrictive covenant agreements, which in certain cases may only be agreements between our principals and KKR Holdings and which may not be enforceable by us or otherwise waived, modified or amended, affiliates of our Managing Partner and existing and former personnel employed by our Managing Partner are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us; •Our Managing Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to the KKR Group Partnerships by us and our affiliates; and •Our Managing Partner or our Managing Partner conflicts committee decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence." Certain actions by our Managing Partner's board of directors require the approval of the Class A shares of our Managing Partner, all of which are held by our senior principals. All of our Managing Partner's outstanding Class A shares are held by our senior principals. Although the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors of our Managing Partner is required for any action to be taken by our Managing Partner's board of directors, certain specified actions approved by our Managing Partner's board of directors will also require the approval of a majority of the Class A shares of our Managing Partner. These actions consist of the following: •the entry into a debt financing arrangement by us in an amount in excess of 10% of our existing long-term indebtedness (other than the entry into certain intercompany debt financing arrangements); •the issuance by our partnership or our subsidiaries of any securities that would (i) represent, after such issuance, or upon conversion, exchange or exercise, as the case may be, at least 5% on a fully diluted, as converted, exchanged or exercised basis, of any class of our or their equity securities or (ii) have designations, preferences, rights, priorities or powers that are more favorable than those of KKR Group Partnership Units; 92 Table of Contents •the adoption by us of a shareholder rights plan; •the amendment of our limited partnership agreement or the limited partnership agreements of the KKR Group Partnerships; •the exchange or disposition of all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of any KKR Group Partnership; •the merger, sale or other combination of the partnership or any KKR Group Partnership with or into any other person; •the transfer, mortgage, pledge, hypothecation or grant of a security interest in all or substantially all of the assets of the KKR Group Partnerships; •the appointment or removal of a Chief Executive Officer or a Co-Chief Executive Officer of our Managing Partner or our partnership; •the termination of the employment of any of our officers or the officers of any of our subsidiaries or the termination of the association of a partner with any of our subsidiaries, in each case, without cause; •the liquidation or dissolution of the partnership, our Managing Partner or any KKR Group Partnership; and •the withdrawal, removal or substitution of our Managing Partner as our general partner or any person as the general partner of a KKR Group Partnership, or the transfer of beneficial ownership of all or any part of a general partner interest in our partnership or a KKR Group Partnership to any person other than one of its wholly owned subsidiaries. In addition, holders representing a majority of the Class A shares of our Managing Partner have the authority to unilaterally appoint our Managing Partner's directors and also have the ability to appoint the officers of our Managing Partner. Messrs. Kravis and Roberts, as the designated members of our Managing Partner, represent a majority of the total voting power of the outstanding Class A shares, when they act together. However, neither of them controls the voting of the Class A shares, when acting alone. Our common unitholders do not elect our Managing Partner or vote on our Managing Partner's directors and have limited ability to influence decisions regarding our business. Our common unitholders do not elect our Managing Partner or its board of directors and, unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and therefore limited ability to influence decisions regarding our business. Furthermore, if our common unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our Managing Partner, they have no ability to remove our Managing Partner, with or without cause. The control of our Managing Partner may be transferred to a third party without our consent. Our Managing Partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or consolidation or in a transfer of all or substantially all of its assets without our consent or the consent of our common unitholders. Furthermore, the members of our Managing Partner may sell or transfer all or part of their limited liability company interests in our Managing Partner without our approval, subject to certain restrictions. A new general partner may not be willing or able to form new funds and could form funds that have investment objectives and governing terms that differ materially from those of our current funds. A new owner could also have a different investment philosophy, employ investment professionals who are less experienced, be unsuccessful in identifying investment opportunities or have a track record that is not as successful as our track record. If any of the 93 Table of Contents foregoing were to occur, we could experience difficulty in making new investments, and the value of our existing investments, our business, our results of operations and our financial condition could materially suffer. We intend to pay periodic distributions to the holders of our common units, but our ability to do so may be limited by our holding company structure and contractual restrictions. We intend to pay cash distributions on a quarterly basis. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than the KKR Group Partnership Units that we hold through wholly-owned subsidiaries and have no independent means of generating income. Accordingly, we intend to cause the KKR Group Partnerships to make distributions on the KKR Group Partnership Units, including KKR Group Partnership Units that we directly or indirectly hold, in order to provide us with sufficient amounts to fund distributions we may declare. If the KKR Group Partnerships make such distributions, other holders of KKR Group Partnership Units, including KKR Holdings, will be entitled to receive equivalent distributions pro rata based on their KKR Group Partnership Units. The declaration and payment of any future distributions will be at the sole discretion of our Managing Partner, which may change our distribution policy at any time. Our Managing Partner will take into account general economic and business conditions, our strategic plans and prospects, our business and investment opportunities, our financial condition and operating results, compensation expense, working capital requirements and anticipated cash needs, debt and contractual restrictions and obligations (including payment obligations pursuant to the tax receivable agreement), legal, tax and regulatory restrictions, restrictions or other implications on the payment of distributions by us to the holders of KKR Group Partnership Units or by our subsidiaries to us and such other factors as our Managing Partner may deem relevant. Under the Delaware Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to a partner if after the distribution all our liabilities, other than liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities for which the recourse of creditors is limited to specific property of the partnership, would exceed the fair value of our assets. If we were to make such an impermissible distribution, any limited partner who received a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution was in violation of the Delaware Limited Partnership Act would be liable to us for the amount of the distribution for three years. Furthermore, by paying cash distributions rather than investing that cash in our businesses, we risk slowing the pace of our growth, or not having a sufficient amount of cash to fund our operations, new investments or unanticipated capital expenditures, should the need arise. Our ability to characterize such distributions as capital gains or qualified dividend income may be limited, and you should expect that some or all of such distributions may be regarded as ordinary income. We will be required to pay our principals for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we receive in connection with subsequent exchanges of our common units and related transactions. We and one or more of our intermediate holding companies are required to acquire KKR Group Partnership Units from time to time pursuant to our exchange agreement with KKR Holdings. To the extent this occurs, the exchanges are expected to result in an increase in one of our intermediate holding company's share of the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of KKR Management Holdings L.P., primarily attributable to a portion of the goodwill inherent in our business, that would not otherwise have been available. This increase in tax basis may increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization and therefore reduce the amount of income tax our intermediate holding companies would otherwise be required to pay in the future. This increase in tax basis may also decrease gain (or increase loss) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent tax basis is allocated to those capital assets. 94 Table of Contents We are party to a tax receivable agreement with KKR Holdings requiring our intermediate holding company to pay to KKR Holdings or transferees of its KKR Group Partnership Units 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that the intermediate holding companies actually realize as a result of this increase in tax basis, as well as 85% of the amount of any such savings the intermediate holding companies actually realize as a result of increases in tax basis that arise due to future payments under the agreement. A termination of the agreement or a change of control could give rise to similar payments based on tax savings that we would be deemed to realize in connection with such events. This payment obligation will be an obligation of our intermediate holding companies and not of either KKR Group Partnership. In the event that any of our current or future subsidiaries become taxable as corporations and acquire KKR Group Partnership Units in the future, or if we become taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we expect that each such entity will become subject to a tax receivable agreement with substantially similar terms. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of our common units at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of our taxable income, we expect that as a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of the KKR Group Partnerships, the payments that we may be required to make to our existing owners will be substantial. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon our existing owners' continued ownership of us. We may need to incur debt to finance payments under the tax receivable agreement to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the tax receivable agreement as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise. In particular, our intermediate holding companies' obligations under the tax receivable agreement would be effectively accelerated in the event of an early termination of the tax receivable agreement by our intermediate holding companies or in the event of certain mergers, asset sales and other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. Payments under the tax receivable agreement will be based upon the tax reporting positions that our Managing Partner will determine. We are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase. However, neither KKR Holdings nor its transferees will reimburse us for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement if such tax basis increase, or the tax benefits we claim arising from such increase, is successfully challenged by the IRS. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments to KKR Holdings or its transferees under the tax receivable agreement could be in excess of the intermediate holding companies' cash tax savings. The intermediate holding companies' ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. If we were deemed to be an "investment company" subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. A person will generally be deemed to be an "investment company" for purposes of the Investment Company Act if: •it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or •absent an applicable exemption, it owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. 95 Table of Contents We believe that we are engaged primarily in the business of providing investment management services and not in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We regard ourselves as an investment management firm and do not propose to engage primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are an "orthodox" investment company as defined in Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act and described in the first bullet point above. With regard to the provision described in the second bullet point above, we have no material assets other than our equity interests in subsidiaries, which in turn have no material assets other than equity interests, directly or indirectly, in the KKR Group Partnerships. Through these interests, we indirectly are the sole general partners of the KKR Group Partnerships and indirectly are vested with all management and control over the KKR Group Partnerships. We do not believe our equity interests in our subsidiaries are investment securities, and we believe that the capital interests of the general partners of our funds in their respective funds are neither securities nor investment securities. Accordingly, based on our determination, less than 40% of the partnership's total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis are comprised of assets that could be considered investment securities. However, our subsidiaries have a significant number of investment securities, and we expect to make investments in other investment securities from time to time. We monitor these holdings regularly to confirm our continued compliance with the 40% test described in the second bullet point above. The need to comply with this 40% test may cause us to restrict our business and subsidiaries with respect to the assets in which we can invest and/or the types of securities we may issue, sell investment securities, including on unfavorable terms, acquire assets or businesses that could change the nature of our business or potentially take other actions which may be viewed as adverse by the holders of our common units, in order to ensure conformity with exceptions provided by, and rules and regulations promulgated under, the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operation of investment companies. Among other things, the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, generally prohibit the issuance of options and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If anything were to happen which would cause the partnership to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, requirements imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, would make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among the partnership, the KKR Group Partnerships and KKR Holdings, or any combination thereof, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to limit the amount of investments that we make as a principal, potentially divest of our investments or otherwise conduct our business in a manner that does not subject us to the registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act. We are a Delaware limited partnership, and there are certain provisions in our limited partnership agreement regarding exculpation and indemnification of our officers and directors that differ from the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL) in a manner that may be less protective of the interests of our common unitholders. Our limited partnership agreement provides that to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law our directors or officers will not be liable to us. However, under the DGCL, a director or officer would be liable to us for (i) breach of duty of loyalty to us or our shareholders, (ii) intentional misconduct or knowing violations of the law that are not done in good faith, (iii) improper redemption of shares or declaration of dividend, or (iv) a transaction from which the director derived an improper personal 96 Table of Contents benefit. In addition, our limited partnership agreement provides that we indemnify our directors and officers for acts or omissions to the fullest extent provided by law. However, under the DGCL, a corporation can only indemnify directors and officers for acts or omissions if the director or officer acted in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the corporation, and, in criminal action, if the officer or director had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. Accordingly, our limited partnership agreement may be less protective of the interests of our common unitholders, when compared to the DGCL, insofar as it relates to the exculpation and indemnification of our officers and directors. See also "—Our limited partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce or eliminate duties (including fiduciary duties) of our limited partner and limit remedies available for unitholders for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of duty. It will be difficult for unitholders to successfully challenge a resolution of a conflict of interest by our Managing Partner or by its conflicts committee." Risks Related to U.S. Taxation If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax or state tax purposes, then our distributions to you would be substantially reduced and the value of our common units could be adversely affected. The value of your investment in us depends in part on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which requires that 90% or more of our gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code, and that our partnership not be registered under the Investment Company Act. Qualifying income generally includes dividends, interest, capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stocks and securities, gain from the sale or other disposition of real property, real property rents, income and gains from energy and oil and gas investments and certain other forms of investment income. We intend to structure our investments so as to satisfy these requirements, including by generally holding investments that generate non-qualifying income through one or more subsidiaries that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Nonetheless, we may not meet these requirements, may not correctly identify investments that should be owned through corporate subsidiaries, or current law may change so as to cause, in any of these events, us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to U.S. federal income tax. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS, on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on our taxable income at the applicable tax rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would otherwise flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributions to you would be substantially reduced which could cause a reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal or state income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity level taxation. See "—Risks Related to Our Business—The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would have (i) in some cases after a ten-year period, precluded us from qualifying as a partnership or required us to hold carried interest through taxable subsidiary corporations and (ii) taxed certain income and gains at increased rates. If any similar legislation were to be enacted and apply to us, the after tax income and gain related to our business, as well as the market price of our units, could be reduced." Several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, our distributions to you would be reduced. 97 Table of Contents You will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on your share of our taxable income, regardless of whether you receive any cash distributions, and may recognize income in excess of cash distributions. As long as 90% of our gross income for each taxable year constitutes qualifying income as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code and we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act on a continuing basis, and assuming there is no change in law, we will be treated, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and not as an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. As a result, a U.S. unitholder will be subject to U.S. federal, state, local and possibly, in some cases, foreign income taxation on its allocable share of our items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit (including its allocable share of those items of any entity in which we invest that is treated as a partnership or is otherwise subject to tax on a flow through basis) for each of our taxable years ending with or within the unitholder's taxable year, regardless of whether or when such unitholder receives cash distributions. See "—Risks Related to Our Business—The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would have (i) in some cases after a ten-year period, precluded us from qualifying as a partnership or required us to hold carried interest through taxable subsidiary corporations and (ii) taxed certain income and gains at increased rates. If any similar legislation were to be enacted and apply to us, the after tax income and gain related to our business, as well as the market price of our units, could be reduced." You may not receive cash distributions equal to your allocable share of our net taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. In addition, certain of our holdings, including holdings, if any, in a controlled foreign corporation, or a CFC, a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, or entities treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes, may produce taxable income prior to the receipt of cash relating to such income, and holders of our common units that are U.S. taxpayers may be required to take such income into account in determining their taxable income. In the event of an inadvertent termination of the partnership status for which the IRS has granted limited relief, each holder of our common units may be obligated to make such adjustments as the IRS may require to maintain our status as a partnership. Such adjustments may require the holders of our common units to recognize additional amounts in income during the years in which they hold such units. In addition, because of our methods of allocating income and gain among holders of our common units, you may be taxed on amounts that accrued economically before you became a unitholder. For example, phantom income from the portfolio or due to operational activities may arise during a month and be allocated to you, creating taxable liability that KKR would not consider in a quarterly distribution because KKR typically considers tax distributions on an annual basis. Consequently, you may recognize taxable income without receiving any cash. Although we expect that distributions we make should be sufficient to cover a holder's tax liability in any given year that is attributable to its investment in us, no assurances can be made that this will be the case. We will be under no obligation to make any such distribution and, in certain circumstances, may not be able to make any distributions or will only be able to make distributions in amounts less than a holder's tax liability attributable to its investment in us. In addition, we anticipate making quarterly distributions but allocate taxable income on a monthly basis. As a result, if you dispose of your common units, you may be allocated taxable income during the time you held your common units without receiving any cash distributions corresponding to that period. Accordingly, each holder should ensure that it has sufficient cash flow from other sources to pay all tax liabilities. Our interests in certain of our businesses will be held through intermediate holding companies, which will be treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes; such corporations will be liable for significant taxes and may create other adverse tax consequences, which could potentially adversely affect the value of our common units. In light of the publicly traded partnership rules under U.S. federal income tax laws and other requirements, we will hold our interest in certain of our businesses through intermediate holding 98 Table of Contents companies, which will be treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These intermediate holding companies will be liable for U.S. federal income taxes at regular rates on all of their taxable income as well as applicable state, local and other taxes. These taxes would reduce the amount of distributions available to be made on our common units. In addition, these taxes could be increased if the IRS were to successfully reallocate deductions or income of the related entities conducting our business. Changes in U.S. tax law could adversely affect our ability to raise funds from certain foreign investors. Under the U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or FATCA, U.S. withholding agents and all entities in a broadly defined class of foreign financial institutions, or FFIs, are required to comply with a complicated and expansive reporting regime or, beginning after June 30, 2014, be subject to a 30% United States withholding tax on certain U.S. payments (and beginning in 2017, a 30% withholding tax on gross proceeds from the sale of U.S. stocks and securities) and non-U.S. entities which are not FFIs are required to either certify they have no substantial U.S. beneficial ownership or to report certain information with respect to their substantial U.S. beneficial ownership or, beginning after June 30, 2014, be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. payments (and beginning in 2017, a 30% withholding tax on gross proceeds from the sale of U.S. stocks and securities). The reporting obligations imposed under FATCA require FFIs to enter into agreements with the IRS to obtain and disclose information about certain fund investors to the IRS. In addition, the administrative and economic costs of compliance with FATCA may discourage some foreign investors from investing in U.S. funds, which could adversely affect our ability to raise funds from these investors. Complying with certain tax-related requirements may cause us to invest through foreign or domestic corporations subject to corporate income tax or enter into acquisitions, borrowings, financings or arrangements we may not have otherwise entered into. In order for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, we must meet the qualifying income exception discussed above on a continuing basis and we must not be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. In order to effect such treatment, we or our subsidiaries may be required to invest through foreign or domestic corporations subject to corporate income tax, or enter into acquisitions, borrowings, financings or other transactions we may not have otherwise entered into. We may hold or acquire certain investments through an entity classified as a PFIC or CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Certain of our investments may be in foreign corporations or may be acquired through a foreign subsidiary that would be classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such an entity may be PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, we may hold certain investments in foreign corporations that are treated as CFCs. Unitholders may experience adverse U.S. tax consequences as a result of holding an indirect interest in a PFIC or CFC. These investments may produce taxable income prior to the receipt of cash relating to such income, and unitholders that are U.S. taxpayers will be required to take such income into account in determining their gross income subject to tax. In addition, all or a portion of gain on the sale of a CFC may be taxable at ordinary income rates. Further, with respect to gain on the sale of and excess distributions from a PFIC for which an election for current inclusions is not made, such income would be taxable at ordinary income rates and be subject to an additional tax charge equivalent to an interest charge on the deferral of income inclusions from that PFIC. 99 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your adjusted tax basis allocated to those common units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to you will have decreased the tax basis in your common units. Therefore, such excess distributions will increase your taxable gain, or decrease your taxable loss, when the common units are sold and may result in a taxable gain even if the sale price is less than the original cost. A portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to you. Unitholders may be allocated taxable gain on the disposition of certain assets, even if they did not share in the economic appreciation inherent in such assets. We and our intermediate holding companies will be allocated taxable gains and losses recognized by the KKR Group Partnerships based upon our percentage ownership in each KKR Group Partnership. Our share of such taxable gains and losses generally will be allocated pro rata to our unitholders. In some circumstances, under the U.S. federal income tax rules affecting partners and partnerships, the taxable gain or loss allocated to a unitholder may not correspond to that unitholder's share of the economic appreciation or depreciation in the particular asset. This is primarily an issue of the timing of the payment of tax, rather than a net increase in tax liability, because the gain or loss allocation would generally be expected to be offset as a unitholder sold units. Non-U.S. persons face unique U.S. tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. We expect that we will be engaged in a U.S. trade or business for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including by reason of investments in U.S. real property holding corporations, real estate assets and energy assets, in which case some portion of our income would be treated as effectively connected income with respect to non-U.S. holders, or ECI. To the extent our income is treated as ECI, non-U.S. unitholders generally would be subject to withholding tax on their allocable share of such income, would be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return for such year reporting their allocable share of income effectively connected with such trade or business and any other income treated as ECI, and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular U.S. tax rates on any such income (state and local income taxes and filings may also apply in that event). Non-U.S. unitholders that are corporations may also be subject to a 30% branch profits tax (potentially reduced under an applicable treaty) on their actual or deemed distributions of such income. In addition, distributions to non-U.S. unitholders that are attributable to profits on the sale of a U.S. real property interest may also be subject to 30% withholding tax. Also, non-U.S. unitholders may be subject to 30% withholding on allocations of our income that are U.S. source fixed or determinable annual or periodic income under the Internal Revenue Code, unless an exemption from or a reduced rate of such withholding applies (under an applicable treaty of the Internal Revenue Code) and certain tax status information is provided. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Generally, a tax-exempt partner of a partnership would be treated as earning unrelated business taxable income, or UBTI, if the partnership regularly engages in a trade or business that is unrelated to the exempt function of the tax-exempt partner, if the partnership derives income from debt-financed property or if the partner interest itself is debt-financed. As a result of our ownership of real estate assets and energy assets and incurrence of acquisition indebtedness we will derive income that constitutes UBTI. Consequently, a holder of common units that is a tax-exempt entity (including an individual retirement account, or IRA, or a 401(k) plan participant) will likely be subject to unrelated 100 Table of Contents business income tax to the extent that its allocable share of our income consists of UBTI and thus may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes and U.S. federal income tax reporting with respect to such income. In addition, a tax-exempt investor may be subject to unrelated business income tax on a sale of their common units. We cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, and we will therefore adopt certain income tax accounting conventions that may not conform with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation, amortization and other tax accounting positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns. In addition, our taxable income and losses are determined and apportioned among unitholders using conventions we regard as consistent with applicable law. As a result, if you transfer your common units, you may be allocated income, gain, loss and deduction realized by us after the date of transfer. Similarly, a transferee may be allocated income, gain, loss and deduction realized by us prior to the date of the transferee's acquisition of our common units. A transferee may also bear the cost of withholding tax imposed with respect to income allocated to a transferor through a reduction in the cash distributed to the transferee. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have been terminated for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. A termination of our partnership would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders. Holders of our common units may be subject to state, local and foreign taxes and return filing requirements as a result of owning such units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, holders of our common units may be subject to other taxes, including state, local and foreign taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if the holders of our common units do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Holders of our common units may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions in the U.S. and abroad. Further, holders of our common units may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. In addition our investments in real assets may expose unitholders to additional adverse tax consequences. See "—Our investments in real assets such as real estate and energy may expose us to increased risks and liabilities and may expose our unitholders to adverse tax consequences." 101 Table of Contents Certain U.S. holders of common units are subject to additional tax on "net investment income". U.S. holders that are individuals, estates or trusts are subject to a Medicare tax of 3.8% on "net investment income" (or undistributed "net investment income," in the case of estates and trusts) for each taxable year, with such tax applying to the lesser of such income or the excess of such person's adjusted gross income (with certain adjustments) over a specified amount. Net investment income includes net income from interest, dividends, annuities, royalties and rents and net gain attributable to the disposition of investment property. It is anticipated that net income and gain attributable to an investment in our common units will be included in a U.S. holder's "net investment income" subject to this Medicare tax. We may not be able to furnish to each unitholder specific tax information within 90 days after the close of each calendar year, which means that holders of common units who are U.S. taxpayers should anticipate the need to file annually a request for an extension of the due date of their income tax return. As a publicly traded partnership, our operating results, including distributions of income, dividends, gains, losses or deductions, and adjustments to carrying basis, will be reported on Schedule K-1 and distributed to each unitholder annually. It may require longer than 90 days after the end of our fiscal year to obtain the requisite information from all lower-tier entities so that Schedule K-1s may be prepared for the unitholders. For this reason, holders of common units who are U.S. taxpayers should anticipate the need to file annually with the IRS (and certain states) a request for an extension past April 15 or the otherwise applicable due date of their income tax return for the taxable year. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 