Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 18 Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Since December 2007 and continuing through 2009, business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the United States has been greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to decreased consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC, which, in turn, has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions. Our financial performance, in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate. Overall, during 2009, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide and it is expected that such business environment will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. While the business environment in Montgomery County, Tennessee, and the markets in which we operate have been less adverse than in the United States as a whole, a continued overall economic downturn could eventually have a negative affect in our market area. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, results of operations and our financial condition. Our core earnings are weak, which we expect will continue for the foreseeable future. During 2009 our net interest income was marginally sufficient to cover our non-interest expense. From 2004 through 2007 our net interest income was insufficient to cover our non-interest expense and we were only able to report a profit in periods in which we had significant non-recurring income. In order to achieve consistent profitability, we intend to grow to a sufficient size to offset our expenses. However, we may not be able to successfully do so. In addition, when we open new branch offices, we may not be able to increase our earnings in the short term or within a reasonable period of time, if at all. Building and staffing new branch offices will increase our operating expenses. Numerous factors affect our ability to open new branch offices, such as our ability to select suitable locations, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. It takes time for a new branch office to generate significant deposits and loan volume to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs and we may not be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits by expanding our branch network. Furthermore, we will continue to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company and from the implementation of new equity benefit plans for which we began incurring expenses in August of 2008. We may not be successful in significantly improving our earnings capacity in the near future, if at all. For more information on our operating results, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient, or a ready market is not available, to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which may require additions to our allowance. Although we are unaware of any specific problems with our loan portfolio that would require any increase in our allowance at the present time, our allowance for loan losses may need to be increased further in the future due to our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Any material additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. In addition, our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provisions for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 19 Our concentrations in construction loans, including speculative construction loans, nonresidential real estate loans and land loans may expose us to increased credit risk. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of loan origination. Although our origination of these types of loans has slowed as the local economy has slowed, over time, we intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these loan types. These loan types expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family mortgage loans because the repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operation or sale of the property and the income stream of the borrowers and such loans typically involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. In addition, many borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us so an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of non-payment and loss. Furthermore, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses through future charges to income as the portfolio of these types of loans grows, which would hurt our earnings. For more information about the credit risk we face, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Risk Management.” Noncore funding represents a large component of our funding base. In addition to the traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposits, we utilize several noncore funding sources, such as Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati advances, the Federal Reserve Discount Window, federal funds purchased and other sources. We utilize these noncore funding sources to fund our ongoing operations and growth. The availability of these noncore funding sources are subject to broad economic conditions and, as such, the pricing on these sources may fluctuate significantly and/or be restricted at any point in time, thus impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional liquidity. Should the FHLB system deteriorate to the point of not being able to fund future advances to banks, including First Federal, this would place increased pressure on other wholesale funding sources. Fluctuations in interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Special Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments and increased base assessment rates by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will decrease our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate will increase our deposit insurance costs and negatively impact our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 5 basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. The assessment was collected on September 30, 2009. Based on our assets and Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, our special assessment was approximately $155,000. The special assessment decreased our earnings. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation may impose additional emergency special assessments after June 30, 2009, of up to 5 basis points per quarter on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will further decrease our earnings. 20 We could be subject to valuation and extension risk related to the Federal Reserve ending its program to purchase mortgage-backed securities backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. On November 25, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced that it would initiate a program to purchase $100.0 billion in direct obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks and $500.0 billion in mortgage-backed securities backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”). The Federal Reserve stated that its actions were intended to reduce the cost and increase the availability of credit for the purchase of houses, which in turn should support housing markets and foster improved conditions in financial markets more generally. On March 18, 2009, the Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) announced the expansion of the Federal Reserve’s program to purchase up to $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed securities. On September 23, 2009, the FOMC announced that the Federal Reserve would gradually slow the pace of purchases, anticipating that they would be complete by the end of first quarter 2010. Recent FOMC pronouncements have confirmed that intention. The planned withdrawal of the Federal Reserve from the market for mortgage-backed investments could cause mortgage rates to rise and the price of mortgage-backed securities to fall, which would negatively impact the valuation of our investments in mortgage-backed securities and increase extension risk on those investments. Valuation risk is the risk that prices for mortgage-backed investments could decline as mortgage rates increase. Extension risk is the cash flow risk resulting from the possibility that fewer borrowers will prepay or refinance their loans as interest rates in the mortgage market increase. This could result in lowering the bank’s capital due to declines in mark-to-market valuations and our net interest margin could be negatively impacted by holding relatively lower yielding investments for a longer than anticipated period. Our balance sheet leverage transactions are subject to reinvestment and interest rate risks. On April 30, 2008 we entered into two balance sheet leverage transactions, utilizing structured repurchase agreements, which totaled $35 - million. $25 - million of the borrowings have call options ranging from two to three years after origination, with final maturities ranging from five to ten years if they are not called. Collateral for the borrowings consists of U. S. Agency pass-through Mortgage Backed Securities (the “Securities”). Borrowing rates as of the report date are substantially lower than when the leverage transaction was originated. If borrowing rates remain at or near current low levels for two to three years it is possible that the structured repurchase agreement borrowings will not be called and the bank will be paying above market rates for borrowings for an extended period of time. Additionally, the recent decrease in mortgage rates has increased the amount of mortgages being refinanced. Prepayment of the mortgages that are collateral for the securities used in the structured repurchase agreement could require us to substitute additional collateral if the minimum collateral level is not maintained. The Bank may not have suitable collateral in the portfolio to substitute at the time and would have to purchase additional securities at market prices. Additional purchases would likely be reinvested in much lower yielding investments. Both factors discussed here could contribute to a mismatch in terms of the effective duration of both the borrowings and the Securities and would negatively impact the anticipated spread on the leverage transaction. 21 We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. A large majority of our loans are secured by real estate in Montgomery County, Tennessee, and the surrounding areas. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could significantly increase nonperforming loans, which would hurt our profits. Historically, Fort Campbell, a nearby U.S. Army installation, has played a significant role in the economy of our primary market area. Future deployments would dampen economic activity. Furthermore, a decline in real estate values could lead to some of our mortgage loans becoming inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to greater risk of loss. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could hurt our portfolio of construction loans, nonresidential real estate loans, and land loans and could reduce our ability to originate such loans. For a discussion of our primary market area, see Item 1, “Business—Market Area.” Strong competition within our primary market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our primary market area. See Item 1, “Business—Market Area” and “Business—Competition” for more information about our primary market area and the competition we face. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, First Federal’s chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. 22 Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. We continually encounters technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Our operations rely on certain external vendors. The Company is reliant upon certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain day-to-day operations of the Company. Accordingly, the Company’s operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements could be disruptive to the Company’s operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or other stock exchanges. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 23 We may not continue to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. Holders of First Advantage Bancorp common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as its board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although First Advantage has established a pattern of declaring quarterly cash dividends on its common stock, it is not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate its common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of First Advantage Bancorp’s common stock. Also, First Advantage Bancorp is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties and material misrepresentations could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 