Item 1A Risk Factors Our business, and an investment in the common stock, involves risks. Summarized below are the risk factors which management believe are material to the business and could negatively affect operating results, financial condition and the trading value of the common stock. Other risks factors not currently known to management, or risk factors that are currently deemed to be immaterial or unlikely, also could adversely affect the business. In assessing the following risk factors, the reader should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If the Bank’s non-performing assets increase, the Bank’s earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing assets totaled $38.1 million, or 4.60% of total assets, which is an increase of $28.5 million, or 296.9%, over non-performing assets of $9.6 million, or 1.03% of total assets, at December 31, 2007. Our non-performing assets may continue to increase in future periods. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must establish an allowance for loan losses for losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are both probable and reasonably estimable through current period provisions for loan losses, which are recorded as a charge to income. From time to time, we also write down the value of properties in other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from our overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities. The Bank and the Company entered into supervisory agreements with the OTS, which will limit their operations and may adversely affect their financial performance. Effective December 10, 2010, the Company, the Bank and the OTS entered into supervisory agreements. The agreements provide, among other things, that: • the Bank must submit a written contingency plan by March 31, 2011 in the event the Bank is notified by the OTS that it has inadequate capital levels for the Bank’s risk profile and the volume, type and quality of assets held by the Bank; • the Bank and the Company must submit for review and non-objection by the OTS within 60 days (and updated yearly), an updated comprehensive business plan for calendar years 2011 and 2012 that addresses all corrective actions in the Bank’s and Company’s 2010 examinations relating to the Bank’s and Company’s business operations, including plans to improve core earnings and achieve profitability on a consistent basis throughout the term of the business plan and submit quarterly reports to the OTS regarding compliance with the plan with any modifications thereto requiring OTS prior written non-objection; • the Bank must within 90 days revise its written program for identifying, monitoring and controlling risks associated with concentrations of credit and other assets to address all corrective actions set forth in the Bank’s 2010 examination relating to concentrations of credit; 48 • the Bank must ensure that its books, records, financial reports and statements are timely and accurately prepared and filed in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and regulatory guidance, including proper reporting on Thrift Financial Reports with the OTS; • the Bank must within 60 days develop and adhere to a written Troubled Debt Restructurings and Loan Modification Policy which will be provided to the OTS within 10 days after adoption by the Board of Directors; • the Bank must not purchase additional bank-owned life insurance (“BOLI”) or increase its investment in existing BOLI policies until the Bank’s BOLI exposure is within regulatory guidelines of 25% of total capital; • the Bank must comply with regulations limiting its ability to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits without receiving the written non-objection of the OTS, including reducing its level of brokered deposits to $52.5 million by June 30, 2011; • the Bank and the Company must comply with regulatory prior notification requirements with respect to changes in directors and senior executive officers; • the Bank will not be permitted to declare a dividend or make any other capital distributions without the prior written approval of the OTS, and the Company cannot declare or pay dividends or make any other capital distributions without prior written OTS approval; • the Bank and the Company will not be permitted to enter into, renew, extend or revise any contractual arrangement relating to compensation or benefits for any senior executive officers or directors, unless it provides 30 days prior written notice of the proposed transaction to the OTS; • the Bank may not enter into any arrangement or contract with a third party service provider that is significant to the financial condition of the Bank or outside of its normal course of business unless the OTS has received 30 days prior written notice of such contract or arrangement and issued its written non-objection; • the Bank and the Company may not make any golden parachute payment or prohibited indemnification payment without OTS prior written approval; • the Bank will not be permitted to increase its total assets during any quarter in excess of an amount equal to the net interest credited on deposit liabilities during the prior quarter, without the prior written non-objection of the OTS; • the Bank may not engage in any transactions with affiliates without providing 30 days advance written notice to the OTS and receiving its written non-objection; and • the Company may not incur, issue, renew or rollover any debt or debt securities, increase any current lines of credit, guarantee the debt of any entity, or otherwise incur any additional debt without the prior written non-objection of the OTS. The restriction on growth will affect the Bank’s ability to generate new loans or make investments without reducing other assets on its balance sheet, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Company’s income. The restriction on brokered deposits may affect the Bank’s ability to have sufficient liquid assets for the Bank’s operations or require it to pay higher rates on retail deposits to replace the Bank’s use of brokered deposits. These limitations and the other restrictions noted above will limit the Company’s operations, which may adversely affect its financial performance. 49 The Bank has also been informed that in a separate agreement, the OTS will impose an Individual Minimum Capital Requirement for the Bank that will require the Bank to achieve and maintain levels of capital greater than those required for a federal savings bank to be classified as well-capitalized. The Bank anticipates, based upon discussions with the OTS that the Individual Minimum Capital Requirement will require that the Bank reach a certain level of core capital by two different dates with the core capital percentage increasing between the two dates. The Bank must maintain these levels until the OTS removes the requirement. Until the Individual Minimum Capital Requirement is finalized, the Bank will not know with certainty the precise capital levels the Bank will be required to reach and maintain or the exact dates when the Bank will need to meet such requirements. Under OTS policy, the Company may not commence a supplemental offering until six months after the completion of the conversion offering, and any offering of the Company’s common stock (public or private) initiated by the Company within 18 months following the completion of the conversion offering is subject to OTS review and written non-objection, unless the Company obtains a waiver from the OTS. As a result, the Company may need to reduce its asset size in order to meet the Individual Minimum Capital Requirement, which may reduce its earnings. In the event the Company or the Bank are in material non-compliance with the terms of the supervisory agreements and Individual Minimum Capital Requirement, the OTS has the authority to subject them to the terms of a more restrictive enforcement order such as a cease and desist order, to impose civil money penalties on them and their directors and officers, and to remove directors and officers from their positions with Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation and Atlantic Coast Bank. The Company has experienced net losses for each of the last three fiscal years and we may not return to profitability in the near future. The Company has experienced net losses of $14.2 million, $29.3 million and $2.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The losses have been primarily caused by a significant increase in non-performing assets, which necessitated a provision for loan losses of $21.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $24.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to a provision of $13.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We charged off $21.7 million of loans during the year ended December 31, 2010 and $21.7 million of loans during 2009 as compared to $9.8 million of loans during 2008. Non-accrual loans (generally loans 90 days or more past due in principal or interest payments) decreased to $28.1 million, or 4.99% of total loans at December 31, 2010, compared to $35.2 million, or 5.65% of total loans at December 31, 2009. We experienced other than temporary impairment losses in our investment portfolio of $4.5 million and $423,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, management deemed it appropriate to write off our entire goodwill balance of $2.8 million, and establish a valuation allowance of 100% of our net deferred tax asset. As a result of these factors and other conditions such as weakness in our local economy, we may not be able to generate sustainable net income or achieve profitability in the near future. 50 We may be unable to successfully implement our business strategy and as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. Our future success will depend upon management’s ability to successfully implement our new business strategy, which includes expanding our mortgage banking activities and an emphasis on originating loans to small businesses, including loans guaranteed by the United States Small Business Administration. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully implement our strategy, it will take time to fully implement our strategy. We expect that it may take a significant period of time before we can achieve the intended results of our business strategy. During the period we are implementing our plan, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. In addition, even if our strategy is successfully implemented, it may not produce positive results. Additionally, future success in the mortgage banking area will depend on management’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated loan originators. The Bank competes against many institutions with greater financial resources to attract these qualified individuals. Failure to recruit and retain adequate talent could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our business and profitability. The geographic concentration in loans secured by one- to four-family residential real estate may increase credit losses, which could increase the level of provision for loan losses. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 54.5% of the total loan portfolio was secured by first or second liens on one- to four-family residential property, primarily in southeastern Georgia and northeastern Florida. The Bank had $92.6 million, or 16.7%, of our loan portfolio secured by one-to four-family residential property in Georgia and $218.1 million, or 39.2%, of such properties in Florida. The downturn in the local and national economy in 2008, 2009 and continuing into 2010, particularly affecting real estate values and employment, have adversely affected our loan customers’ ability to repay their loans. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loans or pursue other remedies in order to protect our investment, we may not be able to recover funds in an amount equal to any remaining loan balance as a result of prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. In particular, the foreclosure process in Florida often takes many months to complete, thereby potentially increasing our risk of loss due to the property’s deterioration in value during this period. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying the loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. Consequently, we would sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense. The loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our number of commercial real estate, commercial business, construction and multi-family loans and consumer loans, which could increase the level of provision for loan losses. The outstanding commercial real estate, commercial business, construction, multi-family, and manufactured home, automobile and other consumer loans accounted for approximately 35.6% of the total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010. Generally, management considers these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner occupied residential properties. Historically, these loans have had higher risks than loans secured by residential real estate for the following reasons: 51 · Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated by the rental property or business in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. This risk has been exacerbated by the extended recession in commercial real estate and commercial land values, particularly in our markets. · Commercial and Multi-Family Construction Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the completion of the project and income being generated by the rental property or business in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Single Family Construction Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful completion of the project and the ability of the contractor or builder to repay the loan from the sale of the property or obtaining permanent financing. · Multi-Family Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated by the rental property in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as automobile and manufactured home loans) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the loan due to depreciation, damage or loss. If these non-residential loans become non-performing, we may have to increase our provision for loan losses which would negatively affect our results of operations. The loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to portfolio lending during a period of rising real estate values, high sales volume activity and historically low interest rate environment. Much of the Bank’s portfolio lending is in one- to four-family residential properties generally located throughout southeastern Georgia and northeastern Florida. As a result of lending during a period of rising real estate values and historically low interest rates, a significant portion of the loan portfolio is potentially under-collateralized given the recent significant decline in real estate values. Sufficient time has not elapsed to ascertain the magnitude of potential losses resulting from lending during a period of intense changes in the real estate market. Additionally, given the historically low interest rate environment over this same period, the adjustable rate loans have not been subject to an interest rate environment that causes them to adjust to the maximum level and may involve repayment risks resulting from potentially increasing payment obligations by borrowers as a result of re-pricing. At December 31, 2010, there were $251.2 million in adjustable rate loans, which made up 45.2% of the loan portfolio. High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio expose us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. 52 If the allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual losses, income and capital will be negatively affected. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses was $13.3 million, or 2.37% of total loans, at December 31, 2010. In the event loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral security for the payments of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, the Bank may experience significant loan losses. Such credit risk is inherent in the lending business, and failure to adequately assess such credit risk could have a material adverse affect on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of the loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, management reviews the loan portfolio and our historical loss and delinquency experience, as well as overall economic conditions. For larger balance non-homogeneous real estate loans the estimate of impairment is based on the underlying collateral if collateral dependent, and if such loans are not collateral dependent, the estimate of impairment is based on a cash flow analysis. If management’s assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. The allowance for loan losses is also periodically reviewed by the Office of Thrift Supervision, who may require us to increase the amount. Additions to the allowance for loans losses would be made through increased provisions for loan losses and would negatively affect our results of operations. The Company could record future losses on our holdings of private label securities. In addition, we may not receive full future interest payments on these securities. The Company owns eight private label collateralized mortgage obligations with an amortized cost basis of $6.5 million and a fair value of $6.7 million at December 31, 2010. The original purchase price of these securities was $17.1 million. The Company recognized total other-than-temporary impairment of $1.7 million and $4.5 million for these securities for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, of which $423,000 and $4.5 million was credit-related losses recorded through our income statement as a reduction of non-interest income, and $1.2 million and $4,000 was recorded as an increase to other comprehensive income. A number of factors or combinations of factors could require management to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to our securities portfolio constitutes additional impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, a continued failure by an issuer to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continues to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. 53 Future changes in interest rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations. Net income is the amount by which net interest income and non-interest income exceeds non-interest expense and the provision for loan losses. Net interest income makes up a majority of our income and is based on the difference between: · interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and · interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. A substantial percentage of our interest-earning assets, such as residential mortgage loans, have longer maturities than our interest-bearing liabilities, which consist primarily of savings and demand accounts, certificates of deposit and borrowings. As a result, our net interest income is adversely affected if the average cost of our interest-bearing liabilities increases more rapidly than the average yield on our interest-earning assets. The Federal Reserve Board maintained the federal funds rate at the historically low rate of 0.25% during 2010 and 2009. The federal funds rate has a direct correlation to general rates of interest, including our interest-bearing deposits. Our mix of asset and liabilities are considered to be sensitive to interest rate changes. In a low rate environment, we may be susceptible to the payoff or refinance of high rate mortgage loans that could reduce net interest income. On the other hand, if interest rates rise, net interest income could be reduced because interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, including deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, including loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. In addition, rising interest rates may negatively affect income because higher rates may reduce the demand for loans and the value of mortgage-related and investment securities. Operating expenses are high as a percentage of our net interest income and non-interest income, making it more difficult to maintain profitability. Non-interest expense, which consists primarily of the costs associated with operating our business, represents a high percentage of the income we generate. The cost of generating our income is measured by our efficiency ratio, which represents non-interest expense divided by the sum of our net interest income and our non-interest income. If we are able to lower our efficiency ratio, our ability to generate income from our operations will be more effective. For the year ended December 31, 2010 and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, our efficiency ratio was 78.0%, 93.6% and 77.7%, respectively. Generally, this means we spent $0.78, $0.94 and $0.78 during the years ended 2010, 2009 and 2008 to generate $1.00 of income. This reflects a trend where the efficiency ratio has deteriorated from 63.5% to 78.0% for the approximate eight-year period ended December 31, 2010. 54 If economic conditions continue to deteriorate or the economic recovery remains slow over an extended period of time in our primary market areas of Jacksonville, Florida and Ware County, Georgia, our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely impacted as borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing the loan decreases. Financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates, which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal and the Georgia and Florida state governments and other significant external events. We held approximately 28.3% of the deposits in Ware County, the county in which Waycross, Georgia is located as of December 31, 2010. We also have approximately 0.7% of the deposits in the Jacksonville, Florida, metropolitan area. Additionally, our market share of loans in Ware County is significantly greater than our share of the loan market in the Jacksonville metropolitan area. As a result of the concentration in Ware County, we may be more susceptible to adverse market conditions in that market. Due to the significant portion of real estate loans in the loan portfolio, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. At December 31, 2010, $218.1 million, or 39.2%, of our loan portfolio consisted of real estate secured loans in Florida and $92.6 million, or 16.7%, of such loans consisted of real estate secured loans in Georgia. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on earnings. The unemployment rate for the Jacksonville, Florida metropolitan area was an estimated 11.0% as of December 31, 2010. In addition, the Jacksonville metropolitan area had the 27th highest foreclosure rate of one- to four-family residences in the United States. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, will adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009, the effects of which have continued through 2010. Recent growth has been slow and unemployment remains at high levels and as a result economic recovery is expected to be slow. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak United States economy and high unemployment rates. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages has declined and may continue to decline. The real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow funds. Future negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. We could experience reduced demand for our products and services, increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets or foreclosures, and the collateral for our loans may decline further in value. Moreover, future declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. 55 The slowing and uncertain economy in Florida has negatively impacted our ability to grow loans in our primary market area, and combined with strong competition, may further reduce our ability to obtain loans and also decrease our yield on loans. From 2000 to mid-2007, the Jacksonville metropolitan area had been one of the fastest growing economies in the United States. The area experienced substantial growth in population, new business formation and public works spending. Due to the considerable slowing of economic growth and migration into our market area since mid-2007 and the resulting downturn in the real estate market, management believes growth in our market area will be moderate in the near term. Growth in the first mortgage loan portfolio has been negatively impacted by a slowing in existing and new home sales activity in our markets. A decrease in existing and new home sales decreases lending opportunities, and may negatively affect our income. In addition, we are located in a competitive market that affects our ability to obtain loans through origination or purchase as well as originating them at rates that provide an attractive yield. Competition for loans comes principally from mortgage bankers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions, nationally based homebuilders and credit unions. Internet based lenders have also become a greater competitive factor in recent years. Such competition for the origination and purchase of loans may limit future growth and earnings prospects. Strong competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and also increase our cost of funds. The Bank operates in a very competitive market for the attraction of deposits, the primary source of our funding. Historically, our most direct competition for deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions within our primary market areas. In recent years competition has also come from institutions that largely deliver their services over the internet. Such competitors have the competitive advantage of lower infrastructure costs and substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer services we do not provide. Particularly during times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced significant competition for investors’ funds from short-term money market securities and other corporate and government securities. During periods of regularly increasing interest rates, competition for interest-bearing deposits increases as customers, particularly time deposit customers, tend to move their accounts between competing businesses to obtain the highest rates in the market. As a result, Atlantic Coast Bank incurs a higher cost of funds in an effort to attract and retain customer deposits. We strive to grow our lower cost deposits, such as non-interest-bearing checking accounts, in order to reduce our cost of funds. The Company may not be able to realize our deferred tax asset. The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. However, at December 31, 2010, we had no net deferred tax asset. In 2009, we established a valuation allowance for our net federal and state deferred tax asset after evaluating the positive and negative evidence under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). GAAP requires more weight be given to objective evidence, and since realization is dependent on future operating results our three year cumulative operating loss carried more weight than forecasted earnings. 56 Management regularly reviews the deferred tax assets for recoverability based on our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. The net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2010 will not become fully realizable until our expected future earnings will support realization of the asset. In addition, we will not know the impact of the ownership change from the conversion offering until after it is completed. If triggered, we believe that the impact on our deferred tax asset could be material. This is a preliminary and complex analysis and requires us to make certain judgments in determining the annual limitation. Although it is currently not shown as an asset, it is possible that we could ultimately lose a significant portion of the deferred tax asset. Realization of our deferred tax asset would significantly improve our earnings and capital. Wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth. The Bank must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans and liquidity resources of the holding company. At December 31, 2010, we had $150.0 million of Federal Home Loan Bank advances outstanding. In the past brokered deposits have been solicited as a source of funds. However, under the supervisory agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision entered into in December 2010, Atlantic Coast Bank cannot increase its level of brokered deposits over $83.9 million without prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision and must reduce the level of its brokered deposits to $52.5 million by June 30, 2011. We had $51.8 million of brokered deposits at December 31, 2010, which was 9.8% of total deposits. As our brokered deposits mature, we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Not being able to replace those deposits as they mature could adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher interest rates to replace those deposits could adversely affect our net interest margin and our operating results. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. 57 Atlantic Coast Bank operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Atlantic Coast Bank is currently subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, its chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insures Atlantic Coast Bank’s deposits. As a savings and loan holding company, Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation is currently subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which financial institutions and their holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the federal deposit insurance fund and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operations of financial institutions, the classification of assets by financial institutions and the adequacy of financial institutions’ allowance for loan losses. New financial reform legislation has been enacted by Congress that will change the bank regulatory framework, create an independent consumer protection bureau that will assume the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and establish more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation will also result in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. Further changes in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on Atlantic Coast Bank and Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation. Atlantic Coast Bank’s operations are also subject to extensive regulation by other federal, state and local governmental authorities, and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions that impose requirements and restrictions on operations. These laws, rules and regulations are frequently changed by legislative and regulatory authorities. In the future, changes to existing laws, rules and regulations, or any other new laws, rules or regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will, among other things, eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Congress has recently enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act will eliminate our current primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and require Atlantic Coast Bank to be regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks). The Dodd-Frank Act also authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies like Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation, in addition to bank holding companies which it currently regulates. As a result, the Federal Reserve Board’s current regulations applicable to bank holding companies, including holding company capital requirements, will apply to savings and loan holding companies like Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation. These capital requirements are substantially similar to the capital requirements currently applicable to Atlantic Coast Bank, but will not be applicable to Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation for five years. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. 58 The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Atlantic Coast Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorney generals the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. The legislation also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. Lastly, the Dodd-Frank Act will increase stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. It is difficult to predict at this time what effect the new legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks with regards to the lending and credit practices of such banks. Moreover, many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not take effect for at least a year, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will increase our operating and compliance costs. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. In response to the financial crisis of 2008 and early 2009, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. The Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay on their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. 59 The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Risks Relating to an Investment in Common Stock Stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume. The Company’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in the Stock Company’s common stock is relatively small, approximately 8,000 shares per day in 2010, and sometimes significantly less than that. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price. Stock issued pursuant to the exercise of stock options awarded to directors and management will dilute public stockholder ownership. Directors and management currently hold options to purchase approximately 597,000 shares of common stock, or 4.5% of total common stock outstanding. There are an additional 62,000 shares available for future awards of options under the current stock option plan, or 0.5% of the common stock outstanding. Stock options are paid for by the recipient in an amount equal to the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. The payments are not made until the option is actually exercised by the recipient. The issuance of common stock pursuant to the exercise of total stock options under the stock option plan will result in the dilution of existing stockholders voting interests by 5.0% unless shares are repurchased to cover such exercise. Ability to pay dividends is limited. Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation’s ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory requirements and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital to meet the capital needs of the business, including capital needs related to future growth. The primary source of income is the payment of dividends from Atlantic Coast Bank to the Company. Atlantic Coast Bank, in turn, is subject to regulatory requirements potentially limiting its ability to pay such dividends and by the need to maintain sufficient capital for its operations and obligations. Thus, there can be no assurance the Company will pay dividends to common stockholders, no assurance as to the amount or timing of any such dividends, and no assurance such dividends, if and when paid, will be maintained, at the same level or at all, in future periods. On September 25, 2009, the Company announced that it had suspended its regular quarterly cash dividend. 60 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None 61 