D. Risk factors. Our business, operating or financial condition could be harmed due to any of the following risk factors. Accordingly, investors should carefully consider these risks in making a decision as to whether to purchase, sell or hold our securities. In addition, investors should note that the risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or risks that do not seem significant today, may also impair our business operations in the future. Risks Related To Our Business and Industry We recorded an impairment on the carrying value of our oil and gas assets during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, and may again in the future record additional impairments. Our balance sheet has been prepared using a reserve report prepared by a reservoir engineering consulting firm to support the carrying value of the oil and gas assets presented in the balance sheet. Based on this reserve report, we recognized an impairment expense for the six months ended June 30, 2010 of $1,143,863, primarily in relation to the Jonah and Lookout Wash Fields in Wyoming. The impairment recognized at year end was primarily in relation to the decrease in gas prices. While the oil price has strengthened since year end, the natural gas price remains weak. Subsequent adverse changes in oil and gas prices or drilling results may result in us being unable to recover the carrying value of our long-lived assets, and make it appropriate to recognize more impairments in future periods. Such impairments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Oil and natural gas prices are extremely volatile, and decreases in prices have in the past and could in the future adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and profitability. Our revenues, profitability and future rate of growth depend principally upon the market prices of oil and natural gas, which fluctuate widely. Sustained declines in oil and gas prices may adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. For example, if the price of oil and natural gas were to have been 10% lower in the years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, the net loss we reported for June 30, 2009 would have increased by 1.54 % and the net profit would have decreased by 62.3% for the year ended June 30, 2010. Factors that can cause market prices of oil and natural gas to fluctuate include: · national and international financial market conditions; · uncertainty in capital and commodities markets; · the level of consumer product demand; -7- · weather conditions; · U.S. and foreign governmental regulations; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, particularly those in the Middle East, including actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; · the foreign supply of oil and natural gas; · the price of oil and gas imports, consumer preferences; and · overall U.S. and foreign economic conditions. We cannot predict future oil and gas prices. At various times, excess domestic and imported supplies have depressed oil and gas prices. Additionally, the location of our producing wells may limit our ability to take advantage of spikes in regional demand and resulting increases in price. While increased demand would normally be expected to increase the prices we receive for our natural gas, other factors, such as the recent sharp downturn in worldwide economic activity, may dampen or even reverse any such positive impact on prices. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Such a reduction may result in substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and require write–downs of our properties. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, our production data factors change or our exploration results do not meet expectations, accounting rules may require us to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties to fair value, as a non–cash charge to earnings. International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) require us to assess impairment of capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties by comparing net capitalized costs to estimated discounted future net cash flows on a field–by–field basis, using estimated production based upon prices at which management reasonably estimates such products to be sold. If net capitalized costs exceed discounted future net cash flows, the measurement of impairment is based on estimated fair value, which would consider future discounted cash flows. We were required to recognize impairment charges at June 30, 2010 of $1,143,863, based primarily on the deterioration of oil and natural gas prices. If current prices and conditions worsen, we may incur substantial additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The worldwide crisis in credit and financial markets may affect our ability to obtain additional funding on acceptable terms. In light of our recently strengthened cash position, we do not believe the recent turmoil in the global financial system will adversely affect us in the immediate future, but we may face challenges in the future if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. For example, we may require additional capital to develop our undeveloped acreage or pursue new opportunities, but financing may be unavailable to us for such activity. While our current cash position could be used to acquire new prospects or develop some of our undeveloped acreage, we may wish to use debt financing for a portion of such costs. If other funding is not available, or is available only on unfavorable terms, our drilling plans, capital expenditures and other future business opportunities could be limited, to the detriment of our revenues and results of operations. Reserve estimates are imprecise and subject to revision. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are projections based on available geologic, geophysical, production and engineering data. There are uncertainties inherent in the manner of producing, and the interpretation of, this data as well as in the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of factors including: · the quality and quantity of available data; -8- · the interpretation of that data; · the ability of Samson to access the capital required to develop proved undeveloped locations; · the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and · the judgment of the engineers preparing the estimate. Actual future production, natural gas and oil prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves will likely vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and value of our reserves. Our reserves may also be susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent properties. We are required to adjust our estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development and prevailing gas and oil prices. These reserve reports are necessarily imprecise and may significantly vary depending on the judgment of the reservoir engineering consulting firm. Investors should not construe the present value of future net cash flows as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, in accordance with applicable regulations, even though actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Factors that will affect actual future net cash flows include: · the amount and timing of actual production; · the price for which that oil and gas production can be sold; · supply and demand for oil and natural gas; · curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas and oil purchasers; and · changes in government regulations or taxation. As a result of these and other factors, we will be required to periodically reassess the amount of our reserves, which may require us to recognize a write–down of our oil and gas properties, as occurred at December 31, 2008, June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2010. We operate only a small percentage of our proved properties. The business activities at all of our material producing properties are conducted through joint operating agreements under which we own partial non–operating interests in the properties. As a result, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures, or future development of those properties, including our interests in the Jonah Field, Look Out Wash, North Stockyard and State GC properties. Consequently, the operating results with respect to those properties are beyond our control. The failure of an operator of our wells to perform operations adequately, or an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce our production and revenues. In addition, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, the participation of other owners in drilling wells, and the appropriate use of technology. Since we do not have a majority interest in most of these properties, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance. Further, significant cost overruns of an operation in any one of these projects may require us to increase our capital expenditure budget and could result in some wells becoming uneconomic. We depend on successful exploration, development and acquisitions to maintain reserves and revenue in the future. In general, the volume of production from natural gas and oil properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our reserves will decline significantly as production occurs unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. Our future oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves that are economically feasible and in developing existing proved reserves. To the extent that cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of natural gas and oil reserves would be impaired. -9- Forward sales and hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or expose us to losses. To manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our natural gas and as required by Macquarie under our Loan Facility, we have entered into hedging arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. As of December 17, 2010, we have ratio collars in place with respect to our 2010 and 2011 production. Our hedging transactions expose us to certain risks and financial losses, including, among others: · our production is less than expected; · the risk that we may be limited in receiving the full benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices as a result of these transactions; · the risk that we may hedge too much or too little production depending on how oil and natural gas prices fluctuate in the future; and · the risk that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement may default on its obligation to us. A significant portion of our producing properties are located in the Rocky Mountains and are vulnerable to extreme seasonal weather, environmental regulation and production constraints. A significant portion of our operating properties are located in the Rocky Mountain region. As a result, the success of our operations and our profitability may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of adverse conditions unique to that region. Such conditions can include extreme seasonal weather, which could limit our ability to access our properties or otherwise delay or curtail our operations. Also, there could be delays or interruptions of production from existing or planned new wells by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, interruption of transportation, or fluctuations in prices of oil and natural gas produced from the wells in the region. In addition, some of the properties we intend to develop for production are located on federal lands where drilling and other related activities cannot be conducted during certain times of the year due to environmental considerations. This could adversely affect our ability to operate in those areas and may intensify competition during certain times for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs, particularly if our exploration or development activities on federal lands, or our production from federal lands increases. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, operation and capacity of gas gathering systems and the availability of interstate pipelines and processing facilities, all of which are owned by third parties. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities, which result from factors beyond our control, could result in the shut–in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. We currently own an interest in several wells that are capable of producing but may have their production curtailed from time to time at some point in the future pending gas sales contract negotiations, as well as construction of gas gathering systems, pipelines, and processing facilities Petroleum exploration and development involves substantial business risks. The business of exploring for and, to a lesser extent, developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk, and thus a substantial risk of investment loss that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · unexpected drilling conditions; · unexpected abnormal pressure or irregularities in formations; -10- · equipment failures or accidents; · adverse changes in prices; · weather conditions; · ability to fund capital necessary to develop exploration properties and producing properties; · shortages in experienced labor; and · shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment, including equipment needed for drilling, fracture stimulating and completing wells. Acquisition and completion decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that are speculative. It is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. Furthermore, a successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. A variety of geological, operational, or market–related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the viability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. A productive well may become uneconomic if water or other deleterious substances are encountered that impair or prevent the production of oil and/or natural gas from the well. Our industry experiences numerous operating hazards. The exploration, development and operation of oil and gas properties involve a variety of operating risks including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or vandalism, and environmental hazards, including oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. These industry operating risks can result in injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean–up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties, and suspension of operations, any of which could result in substantial losses. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. Damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to damage claims by other oil and gas companies. Although we and our operating partners maintain insurance to cover our operations, some risks, such as pollution and environmental risks generally, are not fully insurable. Our insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover our losses, and we do not have access to insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or contractual indemnity, it could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive, and we compete with other companies that are significantly larger and have greater resources. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay higher prices for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects or define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these competitors may have a greater ability to continue exploration activities during periods of low oil and natural gas market prices. Our larger competitors may also be able to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations more easily than we can. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. -11- We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our exploration, development, and production operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. The environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject: · require applying for and receiving a permit before drilling commences; · restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; · limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas; and · impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. We may be required to prepare an environmental impact statement (“EIS”) in order to obtain the permits necessary to proceed with the development of certain oil and gas properties. There can be no assurance that we will obtain all necessary permits and, if obtained, that the costs associated with completing the EIS and obtaining such permits will not exceed those that had been previously estimated. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with the compliance with such standards and regulations could cause us to delay or abandon the further development of these properties. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. For example, regulations limiting or prohibiting the process of fracture stimulating oil or gas wells because of its potential effect on drinking water is currently the subject of regulatory scrutiny and legislative changes in some states. While none of our properties are expected to be subject to any such changes, there is no assurance that this will remain the case. In addition, over the years, we have owned or leased numerous properties for oil and gas activities upon which petroleum hydrocarbons or other materials may have been released by us or by predecessor property owners or lessees who were not under our control. Under applicable environmental laws and regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of any such previously released materials or property contamination at such locations, in some cases regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or if our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed. We depend on key personnel. The loss of key members of our management team, or difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel, could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success. Our success depends on the continued services of our executive officers and a limited number of other senior management and technical personnel. Loss of the services of any of these people could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We maintain a $1,000,000 “key man” insurance policy on our Chief Executive Officer, but not on any other executive. Our exploratory drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced explorationists, engineers and other professionals. Competition for these and other professionals is extremely intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. -12- Risks Related to Our Securities We may lose our status as a “foreign private issuer” under SEC regulations, which may increase our compliance costs. Although the test to determine our status for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2011 will not be conducted until December 31, 2010, we believe it to be likely we will lose our status as a “foreign private issuer” under SEC rules, effective as of July 1, 2011. If so, we would be required to comply with additional reporting and other requirements imposed by U.S. securities laws on U.S. domestic issuers, which are more extensive than those applicable to foreign private issuers by these U.S. laws. We could also be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) in addition to, or in substitution for, our financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS pursuant to ASX requirements. Generating two separate sets of financial statements, or just converting our historical IFRS financial statements to U.S. GAAP financial statements, would be a substantial burden that would impose significant one time or continuing administrative and accounting costs on us. As a result of becoming a U.S. domestic issuer, which is likely, the legal, accounting, regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws would be significantly higher than those we presently incur as a foreign private issuer. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, holders of our Ordinary Shares and ADSs must rely on appreciation for any return on their investment. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our Ordinary Shares in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, holders of our Ordinary Shares and ADSs will have to rely on capital appreciation, if any, to earn a return on their investment in our Ordinary Shares. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs relative to the price of our Ordinary Shares. The price of our Ordinary Shares is quoted in Australian dollars and the price of our ADSs is quoted in U.S. dollars. Movements in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate may adversely affect the U.S. dollar price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the price of our Ordinary Shares. During the calendar year 2010, the Australian dollar has, as a general trend, appreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar but this may not always be the case. If the Australian dollar weakens against the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar price of the ADSs could decline correspondingly, even if the price of our Ordinary Shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. In the unlikely event that dividends are payable, we will likely calculate and pay any cash dividends in Australian dollars and, as a result, exchange rate movements will affect the U.S. dollar amount of any dividends holders of our ADSs will receive from the Bank of New York Mellon, our depositary. While we would ordinarily expect such variances to be adjusted by inter-market arbitrage activity that accounts for the differences in currency values, there can be no assurance that such activity will in fact be an efficient offset to this risk. The prices of our Ordinary Shares and ADSs have been and will likely continue to be volatile. The trading prices of our Ordinary Shares on the ASX and of our ADSs on the NYSE Amex have been, and likely will continue to be, volatile. Other natural resource companies have experienced similar volatility leading us to expect that the results of exploration activities, the price of oil and natural gas, future operating results, market conditions for natural resource shares in general, and other factors beyond our control, could have a significant, adverse or positive impact on the market price of our Ordinary Shares and ADSs. We also believe that this volatility creates opportunities for arbitrage trading between the ASX and NYSE Amex markets. While we recognize that arbitrage trading is an appropriate market mechanism to eliminate the differences between different trading markets resulting from the combination of volatile stock prices and inter-market inefficiencies, some of our shareholders may not be in a position to take advantage of the potential profits available to arbitrageurs in such cases. The trading prices of our ADSs may be adversely affected by short selling, some of which may be in violation of law. “Short selling” is the sale of a security that the seller does not own, including a sale that is completed by the seller’s delivery of a “borrowed” security (i.e. the short seller’s promise to deliver the security). Short sellers make a short sale because they believe that they will be able to buy the stock at a lower price than their sales price. Significant short selling of a security may create an incentive for market participants to lower the trading prices of that security. Historically, short selling on United States trading markets seldom led to such a downward spiral in trading prices because of SEC and stock exchange rules that limited the times when a short sale could be effected (the “Uptick Rule”). With the repeal of the Uptick Rule and the passage of SEC Regulation SHO, manipulation of trading prices on U.S. exchanges by short sellers has become much more prevalent in recent years, and a public outcry led the SEC to modify the regulatory scheme for short selling in 2008. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 also addressed short selling regulations but there are continuing doubts about the efficacy of the regulation of short selling on U. S trading markets, even after the Dodd-Frank measures. -13- We may be deemed to be a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are or we become a PFIC, it would have negative tax consequences to holders of our ADSs. Potential investors in our Ordinary Shares or ADSs should consider the risk that we could be now, or could in the future become, a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not believe we will be a PFIC for the current taxable year and we do not expect to become a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, the tests for determining PFIC status depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control and subject to uncertainties, and accordingly we cannot be certain of our PFIC status. We do not undertake an obligation to determine our PFIC status, or to advise investors in our securities as to our PFIC status, for any taxable year. If we were determined to be a PFIC for any year, holders of our Ordinary Shares or ADSs who are U.S. persons for U.S. federal income tax purposes (“U.S. holders”) whose holding period for such Ordinary Shares or ADSs includes part of a year in which we are a PFIC generally will be subject to a special, highly adverse, tax regime imposed on “excess distributions” of a PFIC. This regime will apply irrespective of whether we are still a PFIC in the year the “excess distribution” is made or received. “Excess distributions” for this purpose would include not only specified distributions received on shares in a PFIC but also gains by a U.S. holder on a sale or other transfer of the shares (including certain transfers that would otherwise be tax-free). Under the PFIC rules, excess distributions would be allocated ratably to the U.S. holder’s holding period. The portion of any excess distributions allocated to the current year or prior years before we first became a PFIC would be includible by the U.S. holder as ordinary income in the current year. The portion of any excess distributions allocated to prior years would be taxed to such holder at the highest marginal rate applicable to ordinary income for each year (regardless of the holder’s actual marginal rate for that year and without reduction by any losses or loss carryforwards) and would be subject to interest charges. In addition, dividends received from a PFIC are not “qualified dividend income” and are subject to taxation at ordinary income rates. In certain cases, U.S. holders may make elections to mitigate the adverse tax rules that apply to PFICs (the “mark–to–market” and “qualified electing fund” or “QEF” elections), but these elections may also accelerate the recognition of taxable income and could result in the recognition of ordinary income. We have never received a request from a holder of our Ordinary Shares or ADSs for the annual information required to make a QEF election and we have not decided whether we would provide such information if a request were to be made. Additional adverse tax rules will apply to U.S. holders for any year in which we are a PFIC and own or dispose of shares in another corporation that is itself a PFIC. Special adverse rules that impact certain estate planning goals could apply to our Ordinary Shares or ADSs if we are a PFIC. While we intend to take all reasonable steps to avoid being classified as a PFIC for U.S. income tax purposes, U.S. holders should be aware of the risk and the adverse tax consequences of such a determination. Our ADS holders are not shareholders and do not have shareholder rights. The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, executes and delivers our ADSs on our behalf. Each ADS is represented by a certificate evidencing a specific number of ADSs. Our ADS holders are not treated as shareholders and do not have the rights of shareholders which are described below in “Description of Ordinary Shares.” The depositary is the holder of the Ordinary Shares underlying our ADSs. Holders of our ADSs have ADS holder rights. A deposit agreement among us, the depositary and our ADS holders sets out ADS holder rights as well as the rights and obligations of the depositary. New York law governs the deposit agreement and the ADSs. For a description of ADS holder rights, see Item 12, “Description of Securities Other Than Equity Securities.” Our ADS holders do not have the right to receive notices of general meetings or to attend and vote at our general meetings of shareholders. Our practice is to give ADS holders notices of general meetings and enable them to vote at our general meetings of shareholders, but we are not obligated to continue to do so. Our ADS holders may instruct the depositary to vote the Ordinary Shares underlying their ADSs, but only when we ask the depositary to ask for their instructions. Although our practice is to have the depositary ask for the instructions of ADS holders, we are not obligated to do so, and if we do not, our ADS holders would not be able to exercise their right to vote. On the other hand, ADS holders can exercise their right to vote the Ordinary Shares underlying their ADSs by withdrawing the Ordinary Shares. While it is possible that our ADS holders would not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the Ordinary Shares, announcements of our shareholder meetings are made by press release and copies of the announcement are routinely filed with the SEC on Form 6-K. -14- When we do ask the depositary to seek our ADS holders’ instructions, the depositary notifies our ADS holders of the upcoming vote and arranges to deliver our voting materials and form of notice to them. The depositary then tries, as far as practicable, subject to Australian law and the provisions of the depositary agreement, to vote the Ordinary Shares as our ADS holders instruct. The depositary does not vote or attempt to exercise the right to vote other than in accordance with the instructions of the ADS holders. We cannot assure our ADS holders that they will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. In addition, there may be other circumstances in which our ADS holders may not be able to exercise voting rights. Similarly, while our ADS holders would generally receive the same dividends or other distributions as holders of our Ordinary Shares, their rights are not identical. Dividends and other distributions payable with respect to our Ordinary Shares generally will be paid directly to those holders. By contrast, any dividends or distributions payable with respect to Ordinary Shares that are held as ADSs will be paid to the depositary, which has agreed to pay to our ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on shares or other deposited securities, after deducting its fees and expenses. Our ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of Ordinary Shares their ADSs represent. In addition, while it is unlikely there may be circumstances in which the depositary may not pay to our ADS holders the same amounts distributed by us as a dividend or distribution, such as when it is unlawful or impractical to do so. See the next risk factor below. There are circumstances where it may be unlawful or impractical to make distributions to the holders of our ADSs. Our depositary, Bank of New York Mellon, has agreed to pay to our ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on shares or other deposited securities, after deducting its fees and expenses. Our ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of Ordinary Shares their ADSs represent. In the case of a cash dividend, the depositary will convert any cash dividend or other cash distribution we pay on the Ordinary Shares into U.S. dollars if it can do so on a reasonable basis and can transfer the U.S. dollars to the United States. In the unlikely event that it is not possible to convert a cash dividends or distribution into U.S. dollars, then the deposit agreement with the depositary allows the depositary to distribute foreign currency only to those ADS holders to whom it is possible to do so. There is also a risk that, if a distribution is payable by us in Australian dollars, the depositary may hold some or all of the foreign currency for a short period of time rather than immediately converting it for the account of the ADS holders. Because the depositary will not invest the foreign currency, will not be liable for any interest on the unpaid distribution or for any fluctuation in the exchange rates during a time when the depositary has not converted the foreign currency, our ADS holders could lose some of the value of the distribution. While unlikely, the depositary may determine that it is unlawful or impractical to convert foreign currency to U.S. dollars or to make the same distribution to ADS holders that is made to holders of Ordinary Shares. This means that, under rare circumstances, our ADS holders may not receive the same distributions we make to the holders of our Ordinary Shares or receive the same value for their ADSs if it is illegal or impractical for us or the depositary to do so. You may have difficulty in effecting service of legal process and enforcing judgments against us and our management. We are a public company limited by shares, registered and operating under the Australian Corporations Act 2001. Three of our four directors named in this annual report reside outside the U.S. Substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service on such persons in the U.S. or to enforce, in foreign courts, judgments against such persons obtained in U.S. courts and predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. There is doubt as to the enforceability in the Commonwealth of Australia, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon federal or state securities laws of the U.S., especially in the case of enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts where the defendant has not been properly served in Australia. Item 