Item 1A. Risk Factors. Revett Minerals is a speculative investment, for many reasons, and the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating it. In addition, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results could differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this report before investing. Operations at Troy are currently suspended. In mid-December 2012, we suspended underground mining operations at Troy because of unstable and unsafe ground conditions in the mine. We have installed geophone monitoring devices and are working with the MSHA to inspect the mine and develop alternate travel and haulage routes that bypass the affected areas. We expect to resume operations in the second quarter of 2013. If we are not able to resume operations, we will necessarily have to consider other alternatives. This could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 7 Copper and silver prices fluctuate markedly. Our operations are significantly influenced by the price of copper and silver. Copper and silver prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors that are beyond our control, such as the strength of the United States dollar, global and regional industrial demand, and the political and economic conditions of major producing countries throughout the world. Since 1990, world average copper prices have fluctuated from a low of $0.71 per pound in 2002 to a high of $4.00 per pound in 2011, and world average annual silver prices have fluctuated from a low of $3.95 per ounce in 1992 to a high of $35.11 per ounce in 2011. There are other formidable risks to mining. We are subject to all of the risks inherent in the mining industry, including industrial accidents, labor disputes, environmental related issues, unusual or unexpected geologic formations, cave-ins, surface subsidence, flooding, power disruptions and periodic interruptions due to inclement weather. These risks could result in damage to or destruction of our mineral properties and production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays, monetary losses and legal liability. In addition, we are subject to competition for new minerals properties, management and skilled miners from other mining companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do. We also have no control over changes in governmental regulation of mining activities, the speculative nature of mineral exploration and development, operating hazards, fluctuating metal prices and inflation and other economic conditions. Legal challenges could prevent us from ever developing Rock Creek. Our proposed development of Rock Creek has been challenged by several regional and national conservation groups at various times subsequent to the Forest Service’s initial issuance of a Record of Decision approving our plan of operation in 2003. Some of these challenges have alleged violations of a variety of federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to our permitting activities at Rock Creek, including the Endangered Species Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the 1872 Mining Law, the Federal Land Policy Management Act, the Wilderness Act, the National Forest Management Act, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Forest Service Organic Act of 1897 and the Administrative Procedural Act. Although we have generally successfully addressed these challenges, we were directed by a federal district court in May 2010 to produce a supplemental EIS to address NEPA procedural deficiencies identified by the court. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty how possible future challenges will be resolved. Rock Creek is potentially the more significant of our two mining assets. New court challenges to the supplemental EIS and a revised Record of Decision may delay us from proceeding with our planned development at Rock Creek. If we are successful in completing the supplemental EIS and defending any challenges, we still must comply with a number of requirements and conditions as development progresses, failing which we could be denied the ability to continue with our proposed activities at Rock Creek. Our reclamation liability at Troy Mine could be substantial. Our financial obligations with respect to the reclamation, restoration and closure of Troy are presently covered by a $12.9 million surety bond which includes $6.5 million in a restricted cash account. In late 2012, DEQ and the Forest Service issued a new EIS and Record of Decision pertaining to the Troy Mine reclamation. We do not presently know whether the revised reclamation plan will increase our bonding costs. Laws governing the closure of mining operations in Montana have become more stringent since Troy was first placed into production. These factors could result in the imposition of a higher performance bond. Our reclamation liability at Troy Mine is not limited by the amount of the performance bond itself, the bond serves only as security for the payment of these obligations. We would necessarily have to pay for any substantial increase in actual costs over and above the maximum allowed under the bond. We presently do not have the financial resources to develop Rock Creek. We may not have sufficient cash to allow us to develop a mine or begin mining operations at Rock Creek should it prove feasible to do so. The Rock Creek mineral resources are not equivalent to reserves. This report includes information concerning the estimated size of our mineral resource at Rock Creek. Since no ore has been produced from Rock Creek, these estimates are preliminary in nature. This report also includes information concerning mineral resources at Troy Mine. 8 Although we believe these amounts are significant, it does not mean the mineral resource can be economically mined. A mineral resource is not equivalent to a commercially mineable ore body or “proven reserves” or “probable reserves” under standards promulgated by the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), principally because they are less certain and not necessarily amenable to economic development. We will not be able to determine whether Rock Creek contains a commercially mineable ore body until our evaluation program has been completed and we have obtained a final, economic and technical feasibility study that will include an analysis of the amount of ore that can be economically produced under then-prevailing market conditions. United States investors are cautioned that the terms “measured mineral resources”, “indicated mineral resources” and “inferred mineral resources” are not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of mineral resources involves greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic feasibility than the estimation of proven and probable reserves. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that mineral resources will ever be converted into reserves. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We are an accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. We had no unresolved staff comments at December 31, 2012. 