Item 1A. Risk Factors. Revett Minerals is a speculative investment, for many reasons, and the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating it. In addition, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results could differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this report before investing. We may not be able to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis that we will continue as a going concern, however at December 31, 2009, we had negative working capital of approximately $0.3 million. If we are not able to generate positive cash flows and profits or obtain adequate additional financing, we will be required to curtail operations and exploration activities, and possibly cease to continue as a going concern. Were we to cease to continue as a going concern, we would be required to restate our assets and liabilities on a liquidation basis, which could differ significantly from the going concern basis. Our auditors’ report on our 2009 consolidated financial statements includes an additional explanatory paragraph that states that continuing losses and our negative working capital raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. These financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from this uncertainty. We have had losses in prior years. We have been engaged in commercial mining operations at Troy for just over five years and have not yet attained a significant level of earnings. In 2009 we incurred a loss approximately $5.0 million on revenues of approximately $29.4 million. In 2008 we incurred a loss of $6.7 million on revenues of $35.9 million, and in 2007 we earned approximately $0.9 million on revenues of approximately $38.9 million. Our loss in 2009 was primarily due to lower metals prices during the first half of 2009. Our losses in 2008 were partially attributable to the fact that metal prices declined in the fourth quarter and we did not attain projected production levels at Troy due to geotechnical problems, a shortage of skilled employees, problems in obtaining necessary repair parts for equipment, and other factors common to underground hard rock mining operations. Our profits in 2007 were primarily attributable to higher copper prices. 6 Copper and silver prices fluctuate markedly. Our operations are significantly influenced by the price of copper and silver. Copper and silver prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors that are beyond our control, such as inflation, the strength of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies, global and regional demand, commodity speculators and the political and economic conditions of major producing countries throughout the world. Since 1990, world average copper prices have fluctuated from a low of $0.71 per pound in 2002 to a high of $3.23 per pound in 2007, and world average annual silver prices have fluctuated from a low of $3.95 per ounce in 1992 to a high of $15.03 per ounce in 2008. There are other formidable risks to mining. We are subject to all of the risks inherent in the mining industry, including industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geologic formations, cave-ins, surface subsidence, flooding, power disruptions and periodic interruptions due to inclement weather. These risks could result in damage to or destruction of its mineral properties and production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays, monetary losses and legal liability. We do not maintain insurance covering environmental or other catastrophic liabilities, and we do not expect to procure such insurance unless and until it is economically feasible to do so. In addition, we are subject to competition for new minerals properties, management and skilled miners from other mining companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do. We also have no control over changes in governmental regulation of mining activities, the speculative nature of mineral exploration and development, operating hazards, fluctuating metals prices, and inflation and other economic conditions. Environmental challenges could prevent us from ever developing Rock Creek. Our proposed development of Rock Creek has been challenged on environmental grounds by several regional and national environmental organizations at various times subsequent to the Forest Service’s issuance of an administrative Record of Decision approving our plan of operation in 2003. Some of these challenges are substantial and ongoing, and allege violations of the procedural and substantive requirements of a variety of federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to our permitting activities at Rock Creek, including ESA, NEPA, the 1872 Mining Law, the Federal Land Policy Management Act, the Wilderness Act, the National Forest Management Act, the Clean Water Act, the Forest Service Organic Act of 1897, and the Administrative Procedural Act. Although we have generally been successful in addressing most of the environmental challenges to our operations, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty how the pending challenges will be resolved. Rock Creek is potentially the more significant of our two mining assets. Continued court challenges to the record of decision and its accompanying biological opinion have delayed us from proceeding with our planned development. If we are successful in defending these challenges, we still must comply with a number of requirements and conditions as development progresses, failing which we could be denied the ability to continue with our proposed activities at Rock Creek. (See the section of this report entitled “Legal Proceedings.”) Our reclamation liability at Troy could be substantial. In acquiring Troy, we agreed to indemnify ASARCO and hold it harmless from all of the liabilities associated with the reclamation, restoration and closure of the mine. This entailed our procurement of a $12.9 million performance bond including an increase in the amount $0.3 million in December 2008. We have submitted a revised reclamation plan for Troy to the DEQ, and the DEQ is in the process of completing an environmental assessment (“EA”). When the EA is completed, changes may be made to the estimated reclamation costs and the amount of the performance bond. One of the key issues that has yet to be resolved is the extent to which we may be required to treat water from Troy after mining operations have ceased. Another issue is whether after the EA is completed, DEQ will require us to prepare and file an EIS in conjunction with any action taken with respect to our revised reclamation plan. We have advised the DEQ that we will fund the cost of an EIS if required, but believe the completion of a comprehensive EA will be adequate. We do not presently know whether our revised plan will actually result in increased reclamation costs at Troy. Laws governing the closure of mining operations in Montana have become more stringent since Troy was first placed into production, and could include provisions requiring us to perpetually treat all of the discharged water from the mine. These factors could result in the imposition of a higher performance bond. Further, our reclamation liability at Troy is not limited by the amount of the performance bond itself. The bond serves only as security for the payment of these obligations; any substantial increase in actual costs over and above the amount of the bond would necessarily be borne by the Company. Payment of such costs could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition. We presently do not have the financial resources to develop Rock Creek. At December 31, 2009 we had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of approximately $2.6 million. We do not have sufficient cash to fund our evaluation program at Rock Creek and we do not have sufficient funds to allow us to develop the mine or begin mining operations should it prove feasible to do so. Moreover, we do not have any commitments for additional funding beyond the $1.2 million raised by way of issuing shares subsequent to December 31, 2009. The forecasted capital cost of constructing a mine at Rock Creek is currently estimated to be in the range of $200 to $250 million and could change materially. 7 The Rock Creek mineral resources are not equivalent to reserves. This report includes information concerning our estimated size of the mineral resource at Rock Creek and the amount of ore that may be produced from the project were it to be developed. Since no ore has been produced from Rock Creek, these estimates are preliminary in nature. Although we believe these amounts are significant, it does not mean the mineral resource can be economically mined. A mineral resource is not equivalent to a commercially mineable ore body or “proven reserves” or “probable reserves” under standards promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), principally because they are less certain and not necessarily amenable to economic development. We will not be able to determine whether Rock Creek contains a commercially mineable ore body until our evaluation program has been completed and we have obtained a final, economic and technical feasibility study that will include an analysis of the amount of ore that can be economically produced under then-prevailing market conditions. Investors are cautioned not to assume that our mineral resource estimates for Rock Creek will ever be converted into reserves. Non-U.S. persons owning our stock could be subject to U.S. taxes if we are treated as a United States company. Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), provides that, under certain instances, a non-U.S. corporation such as Revett Minerals could be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. tax purposes. A consequence of this treatment for non-U.S. persons owning common stock of such a corporation is that they could be subject to U.S. tax on any gain they receive from the sale of such stock unless they qualify for a statutory exemption. Were this to occur, it is unlikely that this potential U.S. tax liability would be credited against the shareholder’s tax liability in his or her country of domicile, meaning that the shareholder might suffer double taxation on any such gain. Management does not believe we will be treated as a U.S. corporation for tax purposes, but cannot offer any assurance that such treatment would not occur. There is presently uncertainty surrounding the interpretation of Section 7874. The Internal Revenue Service could challenge our interpretation of the guidance that has been provided to date or it could write implementing regulations that differ from that guidance. We could be treated as a passive foreign income company for tax purposes. Section 1297 of the Code provides that a foreign corporation such as Revett Minerals may be a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) if (a) 75% or more of its gross income is passive income or (b) the average percentage of the corporation’s assets (by value) held by it during the taxable year that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. (For purposes of Section 1297, “passive income” could include the income we derive from the operations of our wholly-owned Revett Silver subsidiary.) If a U.S. taxpayer shareholder receives an “excess distribution” from a PFIC, that distribution is generally subject to an interest charge unless the shareholder has elected to treat its interest in the corporation as an interest in a “qualified electing fund” or “QEF”, or makes an election to mark to market his or her PFIC stock at the close of each taxable year. An “excess distribution” for purposes of Section 1297 and regulations promulgated there-under is the amount of any current distribution that exceeds the normal level of a PFIC’s distributions. The purpose of the interest charge is to enable a recapture of the benefit of any U.S. income tax deferral to a U.S. shareholder while the investment income (presumably untaxed) was accumulated by the foreign investment company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company is neither an accelerated filer nor a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, nor a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Company does not have any unresolved staff comments outstanding at December 31, 2009. 8 