ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, and an investment in our common stock, involves risks. Summarized below are the risk factors which management believes are material to our business and could negatively affect operating results, financial condition and the trading value of our common stock. Other risks factors not currently known to management, or risk factors that are currently deemed to be immaterial or unlikely, also could adversely affect the business. In assessing the following risk factors, the reader should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If the Bank’s non-performing assets increase, the Bank’s earnings may be reduced. At December 31, 2012, our non-performing assets totaled $33.0 million, or 4.26% of total assets, and have been at elevated levels for five years. Our non-performing assets may increase in future periods. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-performing loans or real estate owned. We must establish an allowance for loan losses for losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are both probable and reasonably estimable through current period provisions for loan losses, which are recorded as a charge to income. From time to time, we also write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are substantial collections costs such as legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from our overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities. 39 The Bank has entered into a Consent Order with the OCC, which requires the Bank to develop strategic and capital plans to achieve and maintain specific capital levels, to implement liquidity and concentration risk management programs, to revise its problem asset reduction plan and to develop policies and procedures to prevent future violations of law or regulation. While subject to the Consent Order, the Bank’s management and board of directors will be required to focus a substantial amount of time on complying with its terms, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. Non-compliance with the Consent Order may lead to additional corrective actions by the OCC which could negatively impact our operations and financial performance. Effective August 10, 2012, the Bank entered into a Consent Order (the Order) with the OCC that provides, among other things, that: •the Order replaces and therefore terminates the Supervisory Agreement entered into between the Bank and the OTS on December 10, 2010; •within 10 days of the date of the Order, the Board had to establish a compliance committee that will be responsible for monitoring and coordinating the Bank’s adherence to the provisions of the Order; •within 90 days of the date of the Order, the Board had to develop and submit to the OCC for receipt of supervisory non-objection of at least a two-year strategic plan to achieve objectives for the Bank’s risk profile, earnings performance, growth, balance sheet mix, off-balance sheet activities, liability structure, capital and liquidity adequacy and updating such plan each year by January 31 beginning on January 31, 2014; •until such time as the OCC provides written supervisory non-objection of the Bank’s strategic plan, the Bank will not significantly deviate from products, services, asset composition and size, funding sources, structures, operations, policies, procedures and markets of the Bank that existed prior to the Order without receipt of prior non-objection from the OCC; •by December 31, 2012, the Bank needed to achieve and maintain a total risk based capital ratio of 13.00% of risk weighted assets and Tier 1 capital ratio of 9.00% of adjusted total assets; •within 60 days of the date of the Order, the Board needed to develop and implement an effective internal capital planning process to assess the Bank’s capital adequacy in relation to its overall risks and to ensure maintenance of appropriate capital levels, which should be no less than total risk based capital ratio of 13.00% of risk weighted assets and Tier 1 capital ratio of 9.00% of adjusted total assets; •the Bank may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless it has applied for and been granted a waiver of this prohibition by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC); •within 90 days of the date of the Order, the Board had to forward to the OCC for receipt of written supervisory non-objection a written capital plan for the Bank covering at least a two year period that achieves and maintains total risk based capital ratio of 13.00% of risk weighted assets and Tier 1 capital of 9.00% ratio of adjusted total assets in addition to certain other requirements; •the Bank may declare or pay a dividend or make a capital distribution only when it is in compliance with its approved capital plan and would remain in compliance with its approved capital plan after payment of such dividends or capital distribution and receives prior written approval of the OCC; 40 •following receipt of written no supervisory objection of its capital plan, the Board will monitor the Bank’s performance against the capital plan and shall review and update the plan annually no later than January 31 of each year, beginning with January 31, 2014; •if the Bank fails to achieve and maintain the required capital ratios by December 31, 2012, fails to submit a capital plan within 90 days of the date of the Order or fails to implement a written capital plan for which the OCC has provided a written determination of no supervisory objection, then, at the sole discretion of the OCC, the Bank may be deemed undercapitalized for purposes of the Order; •within 30 days of the date of the Order, the Board had to revise and maintain a comprehensive liquidity risk management program which assesses on an ongoing basis, the Bank’s current and projected funding needs, and that ensures that sufficient funds or access to funds exist to meet those needs; •within 60 days of the date of the Order, the Board had to revise its problem asset reduction plan (PARP) the design of which will be to eliminate the basis of criticism of those assets criticized as “doubtful”, “substandard” or “special mention” during the OCC’s most recent report of examination as well as any subsequent examination or review by the OCC and any other internal or external loan reviews; •within 60 days of the date of the Order, the Board had to revise its written concentration management program for identifying, monitoring, and controlling risks associated with asset and liability concentrations, including off-balance sheet concentrations; •the Bank’s concentration management program will include a contingency plan to reduce or mitigate concentrations deemed imprudent for the Bank’s earnings, capital, or in the event of adverse market conditions, including strategies to reduce the current concentrations to Board established limits and a restriction on purchasing bank owned life insurance (BOLI) until such time as the BOLI exposure has been reduced below regulatory guidelines of 25.00% of total capital; and •the Board will immediately take all necessary steps to ensure that the Bank management corrects each violation of law, rule or regulation cited in the OCC’s most recent report of examination and within 60 days of the date of the Order, the Board had to adopt, implement, and thereafter ensure Bank adherence to specific procedures to prevent future violations and the Bank’s adherence to general procedures addressing compliance management of internal controls and employee education regarding laws, rules and regulations. While subject to the Order, the Bank’s management and board of directors have been required to focus a substantial amount of time on complying with its terms, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. The Bank has met the requirements under the Order to date, except for achieving a total risk based capital ratio of 13.00% of risk weighted assets and Tier 1 capital of 9.00% ratio of adjusted total assets. As a result, the Bank’s Capital and Strategic Plan has not received supervisory non-objection and therefore the Bank may not significantly deviate from the products, services, asset composition and size, funding sources, structures, operations, policies, procedures and markets of the Bank that existed prior to the Order without receipt of prior non-objection from the OCC. As a result of entering into the Order to achieve and maintain specific capital levels, the Bank’s capital classification under the PCA rules as of December 31, 2012, was adequately capitalized. Since the Bank did not achieve the required capital levels as of December 31, 2012, it is not in compliance with the terms of the Order which gives the OCC the authority to subject the Bank to additional corrective actions. In particular, since the Bank failed to achieve and maintain a total risk based capital ratio of 13.00% of risk weighted assets and tier 1 capital ratio of 9.00% of adjusted total assets by December 31, 2012, then at the sole discretion of the OCC, the Bank may be deemed undercapitalized for purposes of the Order. If the OCC determines that the Bank is undercapitalized for purposes of the Order, it may at its discretion impose additional certain corrective actions on the Bank’s operations that are applicable to undercapitalized institutions. These corrective actions could negatively impact the Bank’s operations and financial performance. 41 Failure to complete the merger with Bond Street Holdings, Inc. could negatively impact the stock price and future business and financial results of the Company. The Company may not be successful in identifying another strategic alternative to raise capital. On February 25, 2013, the Company and the Bank entered into the Merger Agreement with Bond Street and its bank subsidiary, Florida Community Bank. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company will be merged with and into Bond Street and the Bank will then merge with and into Florida Community Bank. The Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby are subject to the approval of the stockholders of the Company, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. If the merger is not completed, the ongoing business of the Company and the Bank may be adversely affected and the Company and the Bank will be subject to several risks, including the following: ·the Bank will continue to be non-compliant with the Order and therefore may be deemed to be undercapitalized for purposes of the Order which may subject the Bank to additional regulatory restrictions; ·the Company will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; ·under the Merger Agreement, the Company and the Bank are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of their business prior to completing the merger, which may adversely affect their ability to execute certain of their business strategies; and ·matters relating to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources by Company management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to the Company as an independent company. If the merger is not completed the Company’s Board of Directors may renew the strategic alternative process in order to raise capital, but there is no assurance that sufficient capital could be raised to meet the regulatory capital requirements. If a source of new capital is identified there is risk that the Company’s stockholders may suffer severe dilution to their investment value. If the merger is not completed, the Company cannot assure its stockholders that the risks described above will not materialize and will not materially affect the business, financial results and stock prices of the Company. There is substantial doubt about the ability of Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation to continue as a going concern. In connection with its 2012 annual audit, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm issued an opinion stating the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern, but that substantial doubt has been raised about its ability to continue as a going concern because the Company is not in compliance with the consent order requiring higher levels of regulatory capital, and the Company has suffered recurring losses from operations that have adversely impacted capital at Atlantic Coast Bank. The failure to comply with the consent order may result in Atlantic Coast Bank being deemed undercapitalized for purposes of the consent order and additional corrective actions may be imposed by the OCC that could adversely impact the Bank’s operations. As of December 31, 2012, the Bank is considered “adequately capitalized” due to the consent order. The Bank continues to have high levels of nonperforming and impaired assets. The future of the Company is dependent on its ability to address these matters. The Company entered into a Merger Agreement with Bond Street on February 25, 2013 to resolve the Bank’s capital deficiencies. If the Company fails to complete the merger or the Bank fails to gain compliance with the consent order, the OCC may place additional restrictions on the Bank which may over time cause the Bank not to be able to continue as a going concern. If at some point in the future, the Bank was placed into receivership, stockholders would almost certainly suffer a complete loss of their investment in the Company. 42 The Bank’s borrowings from securities sold under agreements to repurchase and FHLB advances materially impacts the Bank’s net interest margin and exposes the Bank’s capital and results of operations to significant risk. The Bank has $92.8 million of securities sold under agreements to repurchase (reverse repo) comprised of structured notes with two different counterparties in amounts totaling $77.8 million and $15.0 million, respectively. The individual agreements take the form of term repurchase agreements with maturities beginning in 2014 and final maturities in 2018. The interest rate terms are generally variable based on an index of 9.00% minus 3 month LIBOR and an option to lock in interest rates at a fixed rate each quarter. Due to the low LIBOR interest rate environment that has existed over the last two years, each of the counterparties has exercised their options to fix the rate at ceiling maximums. The weighted average rate of the reverse repos as of December 31, 2012 was 5.10%, and the weighted average maturity was 42 months. The Bank has $135.0 million of FHLB advances, with fixed interest rate terms. The weighted average rate of the FHLB advances as of December 31, 2012 was 3.88%, and the weighted average maturity was 43 months. Due to the unusually low long term interest rate environment being promoted by the Federal Reserve, yields on the investment securities collateralizing the reverse repos and the yields on the loans collateralizing the FHLB advances have been decreasing. At December 31, 2012 the weighted average coupon on the securities collateralizing the reverse repo, was approximately 2.79%, and the weighted average coupon on the loans collateralizing the FHLB borrowings was approximately 5.73%. Given the announced intentions of the Federal Reserve to hold interest rates at their current levels until certain economic measures are reached, the reverse repo transactions and the FHLB advances are expected to have a negative impact to our net interest margin and represent a barrier to returning to profitability. The Bank has the option to terminate the reverse repos at the market rate of the debt, which as of December 31, 2012 exceeded the principal balance outstanding by $11.4 million. Additionally, the Bank has the option to pre-pay the advances prior to maturity at fair value, which as of December 31, 2012 exceeded the book value of the advances by $15.7 million. Based on reductions by the FHLB in the assessed value of loan collateral pledged for the Bank’s FHLB debt and increased prepayment speed of residential loans it is expected that there will be a shortfall in loan collateral in early 2013. Therefore the Bank will have to acquire and pledge investment securities in order to meet collateral requirements which may reduce earnings and total available liquidity. Due to the Bank’s credit rating with the FHLB, the assessed value of loan collateral was decreased during 2012. In addition the largest loan category pledged as collateral for the FHLB debt, one- to four-family residential mortgages has experienced faster prepayments due to the low mortgage interest rate environment. The Bank expects that in early 2013 the FHLB assessed value of pledged loan balances will fall below the outstanding loan balance resulting in a collateral short fall. In order to meet collateral requirements, the Bank will acquire and pledge collateral eligible securities to the FHLB. Due to current low yields available on such securities as compared to yields available on higher interest-earning assets such as loans it is likely interest income will be less and earnings will be negatively impacted. Further, pledging investment securities that otherwise could be available for liquidity needs may impact the Bank’s ability to meet loan growth or other liquidity needs and result in further restrictions by the OCC. 43 Reduced borrowing capacity with the FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta could impact the Bank’s ability to meet liquidity demands and will require increased investment of readily marketable assets, such as mortgage backed securities in order to maintain a sufficient secondary source of liquidity which may reduce earnings. During 2012, the Bank’s borrowing capacity with the FHLB was reduced following an FHLB of Atlanta credit and collateral review and a reduction in the Bank’s credit rating. The Bank’s additional borrowing capacity was reduced to $5.2 million at December 31, 2012. During 2012, the Bank was notified by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta (FRB) that it is no longer eligible to borrow under the Primary Lending program and that it no longer has daylight overdraft capacity available. The FRB informed the Bank that it may be eligible to participate in the FRB’s Secondary Lending program when other sources of liquidity are unavailable. The Bank currently does not utilize services of the FRB that would necessitate use of daylight overdrafts; therefore, this change is not expected to have a material impact on banking operations. Prior to the notice from the FRB the Bank utilized the FRB Primary Lending in its contingent liquidity but had not borrowed under the program for liquidity or other business purposes. In order to maintain sufficient sources of available liquidity the Bank intends to increase its holdings of readily marketable investment securities such as agency backed mortgage backed securities or increase the balances maintained in cash or cash equivalents. Presently, due to the unusually low interest rate environment such investment will result in lower earnings than available from loans or interest earning assets and will likely result in reduced earnings. Further the Bank may be unable to meet liquidity needs for loan growth demands or unusual levels of deposit withdrawals. The Company has experienced net losses for each of the last five fiscal years and we may not return to profitability in the near future. The Company has experienced cumulative net losses of $63.3 million since 2008, which includes a net loss in 2012 of $6.7 million. The losses have been primarily caused by a significant increase in non-performing assets, which necessitated a provision for loan losses of $12.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, $15.4 million for 2011, and $21.2 million for 2010. We charged-off $17.1 million of loans during the year ended December 31, 2012, $13.2 million of loans during 2011, and $21.7 million of loans during 2010. Non-performing loans (generally loans 90 days or more past due in principal or interest payments) decreased to $24.9 million, or 5.76% of total loans, at December 31, 2012 from $46.6 million, or 8.94% of total loans, at December 31, 2011. We did not recognize OTTI losses on our investment portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2012. However, we experienced OTTI losses in our investment portfolio of $0.2 million and $0.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As a result of these factors and other conditions such as interest expense related to our long-term debt and weakness in our local economy, we may not be able to generate sustainable net income or achieve profitability in the near future. We may be unable to successfully implement our business strategy and as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. Our future success will depend upon management’s ability to successfully implement its business strategy, which includes expanding warehouse lending, an emphasis on originating loans to small businesses, including loans guaranteed by the United States Small Business Administration, expense reduction and transitioning the Bank to a retail community banking model. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully implement our strategy, it will take time and additional capital to fully implement our strategy. Further, until such time as the Bank is able to obtain supervisory non-objection to its strategic plan from the OCC, we may not significantly deviate from our products, services, asset composition and size, funding sources or other business activities without receiving prior non-objection from the OCC. We expect that it may take a significant period of time before we can achieve the intended results of our business strategy. During the period we are implementing our plan our results of operations may be negatively impacted. In addition, even if our strategy is successfully implemented, it may not produce positive results. 44 Additionally, future success in the expansion of the warehouse and small business lending platforms will depend on management’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated loan originators. The Bank competes against many institutions with greater financial resources to attract these qualified individuals. Failure to recruit and retain adequate talent could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our business and profitability. The geographic concentration in loans secured by one- to four-family residential real estate may increase credit losses, which could increase the level of provision for loan losses. As of December 31, 2012, more than 60% of the total loan portfolio was secured by first or second liens on one- to four-family residential property, primarily in southeastern Georgia and northeastern Florida. The Bank had $157.1 million, or approximately 37.3%, of our loan portfolio secured by one- to four-family residential property in Florida and $71.9 million, or approximately 17.1%, of such properties in Georgia. The downturn in the local and national economy beginning in 2008, and continuing through 2012, particularly affecting real estate values and employment, have adversely affected our loan customers’ ability to repay their loans. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan or pursue other remedies in order to protect our investment, we may not be able to recover funds in an amount equal to any remaining loan balance as a result of prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. In particular, the state of Florida follows a judicial foreclosure process that often takes up to 2 years to complete, thereby potentially increasing our risk of loss due to the property’s deterioration in value during this period. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying the loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. Consequently, we would sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense. The loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our number of commercial real estate, commercial business, construction and multi-family loans and consumer loans, which could increase the level of provision for loan losses. The outstanding commercial real estate, commercial business, construction, multi-family, manufactured home, automobile and other consumer loans accounted for approximately 40% of the total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012. Generally, management considers these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner occupied residential properties. Historically, these loans have had higher risks than loans secured by residential real estate for the following reasons: ·Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated by the rental property or business in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. This risk has been exacerbated by the economic downturn in commercial real estate and commercial land values, particularly in our markets. ·Commercial and Multi-Family Construction Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the completion of the project and income being generated by the rental property or business in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. ·Single Family Construction Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful completion of the project and the ability of the contractor or builder to repay the loan from the sale of the property or obtaining permanent financing. ·Multi-Family Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated by the rental property in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. ·Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as automobile and manufactured home loans) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the loan due to depreciation, damage or loss. 45 If these non-residential loans become non-performing, we may have to increase our provision for loan losses which would negatively affect our results of operations. The loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to portfolio lending during a period of rising real estate values, high sales volume activity and historically low interest rate environment. Much of the Bank’s portfolio lending is in one- to four-family residential properties generally located throughout southeastern Georgia and northeastern Florida. As a result of lending during a period of rising real estate values and historically low interest rates, a significant portion of the loan portfolio is potentially under-collateralized given the recent significant decline in real estate values. Additionally, given the historically low interest rate environment over this same period, the adjustable rate loans have not been subject to an interest rate environment that causes them to adjust to the maximum level and may involve repayment risks resulting from potentially increasing payment obligations by borrowers as a result of re-pricing. At December 31, 2012, there were $94.2 million in adjustable rate loans, which made up approximately 22.4% of the loan portfolio. High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio expose us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of the decline in home values in our market areas. The pressure on home values remains high due to uncertainty of the economic recovery and the impact of distressed asset sales. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. If the allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual losses, income and capital will be negatively affected. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses was $10.9 million, or 2.52% of total loans, at December 31, 2012. In the event loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral security for the payments of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, the Bank may experience significant loan losses. Such credit risk is inherent in the lending business, and failure to adequately assess such credit risk could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of the loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, management reviews the loan portfolio and our historical loss and delinquency experience, as well as overall economic conditions. For larger balance non-homogeneous real estate loans the estimate of impairment is based on the underlying collateral if collateral dependent, and if such loans are not collateral dependent, the estimate of impairment is based on a cash flow analysis. If management’s assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. The allowance for loan losses is also periodically reviewed by the OCC, who may require us to increase the amount. Additions to the allowance for loans losses would be made through increased provisions for loan losses and would negatively affect our results of operations. Interest rate volatility could significantly reduce the Bank’s profitability. The Bank’s earnings largely depend on the relationship between the yield on its earning assets, primarily loans and investment securities, and the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings. This relationship, commonly known as the net interest margin, is susceptible to significant fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors that influence the yields and rates, and the volume and mix of the Bank’s interest-earning assets and interest- bearing liabilities. 46 Interest rate risk can be defined as an exposure to movement in interest rates that could have an adverse impact on the Bank's net interest income. Interest rate risk arises from the imbalance in the re-pricing, maturity and/or cash flow characteristics of assets and liabilities. The Bank is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that its interest bearing liabilities re-price or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than its interest earning assets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. The Bank's interest rate risk measurement and management techniques incorporate the re-pricing and cash flow attributes of its balance sheet and off-balance sheet instruments as they relate to current and potential changes in interest rates. The level of interest rate risk, measured in terms of the potential future effect on net interest income, is determined through the use of modeling and other techniques under multiple interest rate scenarios. Management's objectives are to measure, monitor and develop strategies in response to the interest rate risk profile inherent in the Bank's balance sheet. Future changes in interest rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations. The Federal Reserve Board maintained the federal funds rate at the historically low rate of 0.25% during 2011 and 2012 and expects to continue this policy in 2013. The federal funds rate has a direct correlation to general rates of interest, including our interest-bearing deposits. Our mix of asset and liabilities are considered to be sensitive to interest rate changes. Generally, customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speeds at which such prepayments occur, as well as the amount of such prepayments, are within Bank customers’ discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and the Bank is unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, the Bank’s interest income will be reduced. A similar prepayment risk exists for the Bank’s investment portfolio which is primarily made up of mortgage-related securities, with the added impact of accelerated recognition of premiums paid to acquire the investment security. A significant reduction in interest income could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. On the other hand, if interest rates rise, net interest income might be reduced because interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, including deposits, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, including loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. In addition, rising interest rates may negatively affect income because higher rates may reduce the demand for loans and the value of mortgage-related investment securities. At December 31, 2012, the Bank had $227.8 million in long-term borrowings, comprised of $135.0 million of FHLB advances and $92.8 million of reverse repos, with the earliest maturities beginning in 2013 and final maturities occurring in 2018. The weighted average rate of the long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2012 was 4.45%, and accounted for approximately 71% of interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2012. Given the announced intentions of the Federal Reserve Bank to hold interest rates at their current levels until certain economic measurements are achieved, the long term borrowings are expected to have a negative impact to the net interest margin. Operating expenses are high as a percentage of our net interest income and non-interest income, making it more difficult to maintain profitability. Non-interest expense, which consists primarily of the costs associated with operating our business, represents a high percentage of the income we generate. The cost of generating our income is measured by our efficiency ratio, which represents non-interest expense divided by the sum of our net interest income and our non-interest income. If we are able to lower our efficiency ratio, our ability to generate income from our operations will be more effective. For the year ended December 31, 2012 and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, our efficiency ratio was 79.6%, 85.7% and 78.0%, respectively. Generally, this means we spent $0.80, $0.86 and $0.78 during the years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010 to generate $1.00 of income. 47 If economic conditions deteriorate or the economic recovery remains slow over an extended period of time in our primary market areas of Jacksonville, Florida and Ware County, Georgia, our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely impacted as borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing the loans decreases. Financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates, which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal and the Georgia and Florida state governments and other significant external events. We held approximately 25% of the deposits in Ware County, the county in which Waycross, Georgia is located as of December 31, 2012. We have less than 1% of the deposits in the Jacksonville, Florida, metropolitan area as of December 31, 2012. Additionally, our market share of loans in Ware County is significantly greater than our share of the loan market in the Jacksonville metropolitan area. As a result of the concentration in Ware County, we may be more susceptible to adverse market conditions in that market. Due to the significant portion of real estate loans in the loan portfolio, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. At December 31, 2012, the Bank had $157.1 million, or approximately 37.3%, of our loan portfolio secured by one- to four-family residential property in Florida and $71.9 million, or approximately 17.1%, of such properties in Georgia. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on earnings. The unemployment rate for the Jacksonville, Florida metropolitan area was an estimated 7.4% as of December 31, 2012. The unemployment rate for Ware County, Georgia was an estimated 11.9% as of December 31, 2012. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. Continuing economic weakness, particularly in our geographic market area, will adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009, the effects of which have continued through 2012. Recent growth has been slow and unemployment remains at high levels and as a result economic recovery is expected to be slow. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak United States economy and high unemployment rates. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages has declined and growth in future values are uncertain. The real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow funds. Future negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. We could experience reduced demand for our products and services, increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets or foreclosures, and the collateral for our loans may decline further in value. Moreover, future declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. The slow recovery and uncertain economy in Florida has negatively impacted our ability to originate mortgage loans for sale or grow our portfolio loans in our primary market area, and combined with strong competition, may further reduce our ability to obtain loans and also decrease our yield on loans. From 2000 to mid-2007, the Jacksonville metropolitan area had been one of the fastest growing economies in the United States. The area experienced substantial growth in population, new business formation and public works spending. Due to the considerable slowing of economic growth and migration into our market area since mid-2007 and the resulting downturn in the real estate market, management believes growth in our market area will be moderate in the near term. Growth in the first mortgage loan origination business has been negatively impacted by a slow existing and new home sales activity in our markets as well as high levels of lender originated sales. A decrease in existing and new home sales or continued high levels of lender originated sales decreases lending opportunities, and may negatively affect our income. In addition, we are located in a competitive market that affects our ability to obtain loans through origination or purchase as well as originating them at rates that provide an attractive yield. Competition for loans comes principally from mortgage bankers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions, nationally based homebuilders and credit unions. Internet based lenders have also become a greater competitive factor in recent years. Such competition for the origination and purchase of loans may limit future growth and earnings prospects. 48 Strong competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and also increase our cost of funds. The Bank operates in a very competitive market for the attraction of deposits, the primary source of our funding. Historically, our most direct competition for deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions within our primary market areas. In recent years competition has also come from institutions that largely deliver their services over the internet. Such competitors have the competitive advantage of lower infrastructure costs and substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer services we do not provide. Particularly during times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced significant competition for investors’ funds from short-term money market securities and other corporate and government securities. During periods of regularly increasing interest rates, competition for interest-bearing deposits increases as customers, particularly time deposit customers, tend to move their accounts between competing businesses to obtain the highest rates in the market. As a result, Atlantic Coast Bank incurs a higher cost of funds in an effort to attract and retain customer deposits. We strive to grow our lower cost deposits, such as non-interest-bearing checking accounts, in order to reduce our cost of funds. The Company may not be able to realize our deferred tax asset. The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. However, at December 31, 2012, we had no net deferred tax asset. In 2009, we established a valuation allowance for our net federal and state deferred tax asset after evaluating the positive and negative evidence in accordance with US GAAP. US GAAP requires more weight be given to objective evidence, and since realization is dependent on future operating results, our three year cumulative operating loss carried more weight than forecasted earnings. Management regularly reviews the deferred tax asset for recoverability based on our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of the deferred tax asset ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. The net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2012 will not become fully realizable until our expected future earnings will support realization of the asset. In addition, future capital raises or transactions that result in a change in control, such as the merger with Bond Street, could trigger the application of certain tax laws which materially limit the utilization of deferred tax asset. This is a complex analysis and requires us to make certain judgments in determining the annual limitation. Although it is currently not shown as an asset, it is possible that we could ultimately lose a significant portion of the deferred tax asset. Realization of our deferred tax asset would significantly improve our earnings and capital. Wholesale funding sources may be unavailable to replace deposits at maturity and support our liquidity needs or growth. The Bank must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to non-maturity deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. Ongoing financial difficulties and restrictions by the OCC and the FHLB may limit these sources, which include FHLB advances, proceeds from the sale of loans and liquidity resources of the holding company. At December 31, 2012, we had $135.0 million of Federal Home Loan Bank advances outstanding, and the remaining borrowing capacity was $5.2 million. In the past brokered deposits have been solicited as a source of funds. However, under the Order with the OCC entered into in August 2012, Atlantic Coast Bank cannot accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. We had $5.0 million of brokered deposits at December 31, 2012. As our brokered deposits mature, we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Not being able to replace those deposits as they mature could adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher interest rates to replace those deposits could adversely affect our net interest margin and our operating results. 49 Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Atlantic Coast Bank operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Atlantic Coast Bank is currently subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, and by the FDIC, which insures Atlantic Coast Bank’s deposits. As a savings and loan holding company, Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation is currently subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which financial institutions and their holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the federal deposit insurance fund and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operations of financial institutions, the classification of assets by financial institutions and the adequacy of financial institutions’ allowance for loan losses. Atlantic Coast Bank’s operations are also subject to extensive regulation by other federal, state and local governmental authorities, and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions that impose requirements and restrictions on operations. These laws, rules and regulations are frequently changed by legislative and regulatory authorities. In the future, changes to existing laws, rules and regulations, or any other new laws, rules or regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Financial reform legislation has, among other things, eliminated the OTS, tightened capital standards and created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Among other things, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act: ·the OCC became the primary federal regulator for federal savings banks such as Atlantic Coast Bank (replacing the OTS), and the Federal Reserve Board now supervises and regulates all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the OTS, including the Company; ·effective July 21, 2011, the federal prohibition on paying interest on demand deposits has been eliminated, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. This change has increased our interest expense; ·the Federal Reserve Board is required to set minimum capital levels for depository institution holding companies that are as stringent as those required for their insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital are required to be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. There is a five-year transition period (from the July 21, 2010 effective date of the Dodd-Frank Act) before the capital requirements will apply to savings and loan holding companies. However, recently proposed rules would not provide such a transition period for savings and loan holding companies; 50 ·the federal banking regulators are required to implement new leverage and capital requirements that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives; ·a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been established, which has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, like Atlantic Coast Bank, will be examined by their applicable bank regulators; and ·federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings banks have been weakened, and state attorneys general have the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. In addition to the risks noted above, we expect that our operating and compliance costs, and possibly our interest expense, could increase as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing rules and regulations. The need to comply with additional rules and regulations, as well as state laws and regulations to which we were not previously subject, will also divert management’s time from managing our operations. Higher capital levels would reduce our ability to grow and increase our interest-earning assets which would adversely affect our return on stockholders’ equity. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules are uncertain. In June 2012, the federal banking agencies approved proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III was initially intended to be implemented beginning January 1, 2013, however on November 9, 2012, the federal banking agencies announced that the proposed rules would not become effective on January 1, 2013, and it is not clear when the proposed rules will become effective. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of financial institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating these ratios. The proposed new minimum capital requirements for Atlantic Coast Bank would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will result in higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to Atlantic Coast Bank. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, bank regulators may impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. 51 The application of more stringent capital requirements for Atlantic Coast Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital or additional capital conservation buffers, could result in management modifying our business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back our shares. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. In response to the financial crisis of 2008 and early 2009, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay on their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the OCC and the FDIC, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Common Stock The Company’s stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume. The Company’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in the Company’s common stock is relatively small, approximately 3,000 shares per day in 2012, and sometimes significantly less than that. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price. If the Company’s Market Value of Publicly Held Shares as defined under NASDAQ rules falls below $5.0 million or the price per share of the common stock falls below $1.00 for a specified amount of time under NASDAQ rules, the Company has 180 calendar days from the date of the receipt of the notification from NASDAQ to regain compliance. If the Company is unable to regain compliance, the Company may have to transfer its listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market or begin trading on the over-the-counter bulletin board which is not a stock exchange. 52 The Company’s ability to pay dividends is limited. Atlantic Coast Financial Corporation’s ability to pay dividends is limited by the Supervisory Agreement with the FRB, regulatory requirements and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital to meet the capital needs of the business, including capital needs related to future growth. The primary source of income is the payment of dividends from Atlantic Coast Bank to the Company. Atlantic Coast Bank, in turn, is subject to the Order and regulatory requirements potentially limiting its ability to pay such dividends and by the need to maintain sufficient capital for its operations and obligations. There can be no assurance the Company will resume paying dividends to common stockholders, no assurance as to the amount or timing of any such dividends, and no assurance such dividends, if and when paid, will be maintained, at the same level or at all, in future periods. The Company has not paid dividends since July 2009. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 