ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this report before investing in our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or those we currently view as immaterial, may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Oil and Gas Industry and Our Business Drilling, exploring for and producing oil and gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on commodity prices and the success of our drilling, exploration and production activities. These factors are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in economic oil and gas production or increases in reserves. Many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled development projects, including: • continued, depressed oil, NGL and gas prices or further declines in these commodity prices; • inadequate capital resources or liquidity to maintain current production levels or further develop our assets; • compliance with governmental regulations, which may include limitations on hydraulic fracturing, access to water or the discharge of GHGs; • limited transportation services and infrastructure to deliver the oil, NGLs and natural gas we produce to market; • inability to attract and retain qualified personnel; • unavailability or high cost of drilling and completion equipment, services or materials; • unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents; • lack of acceptable prospective acreage; 14 Table of Contents • adverse weather conditions; • surface access restrictions; • title problems; and • mechanical difficulties. Oil, NGL and gas prices are volatile. If oil, NGL or gas prices remain depressed, or decline further, it would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure requirements and financial commitments. Our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend on the prices and demand for oil, NGLs and gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile, and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect significantly our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil, NGLs and gas fluctuate widely in response to changes in the supply and demand for these commodities, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supply of oil, NGLs and gas; • domestic and foreign consumer demand for oil, NGLs and gas; • overall United States and global economic conditions impacting the global supply of and demand for oil, NGLs and gas; • the willingness and ability of OPEC to set and maintain oil price and production controls; • commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability, the availability of refining capacity and other factors that result in differentials to benchmark prices; • price and availability of alternative fuels; • price and quantity of foreign imports; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • political conditions in or affecting other oil and natural gas producing countries; • weather conditions, including unseasonably warm winter weather and tropical storms; and • technological advances affecting oil, NGL and gas consumption. Advanced drilling and completion technologies, such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, have resulted in increased investment by oil and gas producers in developing U.S. shale oil and gas projects and, therefore, has resulted in increased production from these projects. The results of higher investment in the exploration for and production of U.S. shale oil and gas, maintenance of production levels of oil from the Middle East, and other factors, such as global economic and financial conditions, have caused the price of oil and gas to fall dramatically. For example, prices for NYMEX-WTI have declined from a high of $107.26 per Bbl in June 2014 to as low as $26.55 per Bbl in January 2016. NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas prices declined from a high of $6.15 per MMBtu in February 2014 to as low as $1.76 per MMBtu in December 2015. Prices may stay suppressed for some time from the levels experienced during the last few years. Any actual or anticipated lack of recovery, or further decline, in oil and natural gas prices may further reduce our level of exploration, drilling and production activity and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents The Company’s financial position, results of operations, access to capital and the amount of oil and gas that may be economically produced would be negatively impacted if oil and gas prices stay depressed for an extended period of time. The ways that continued low oil and gas prices could affect us include the following: • Cash flows would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital expenditures needed to maintain or increase production and replace reserves; • We may breach covenants in our revolving credit facility; • Future net cash flows from our properties would decrease, which could result in significant impairment expenses; • Some reserves would no longer be economic to produce, leading to lower proved reserves, production and cash flows; • Access to capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets and current reserve-based lending levels, would be severely limited or unavailable; and • We expect our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility to be reduced as further discussed below, and if the amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility exceeds the borrowing base, we may be required to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings. If commodity prices remain at their current, depressed levels or decline further, our future cash flows will not be sufficient to fund the capital expenditure levels necessary to maintain current production and reserve levels over the long term and our results of operations will be adversely affected. Low oil and gas prices not only cause our revenues and cash flows to decrease but also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. Decreases in oil and gas prices will render uneconomic some or all of our drilling locations. This may result in our having to impair our oil and gas properties further and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if oil, NGL or gas prices further decline or fail to recover from their current depressed levels for an extended period of time, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future debt or obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect the value of our common stock. The amount available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to semi-annual redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The recent decline in oil and gas prices has adversely impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. We expect that our borrowing base will be redetermined in the first quarter or early second quarter of 2016. We expect that the redetermination will result in a material reduction in our borrowing base in the range of 20% to 30%, but there is no assurance that the decrease will not be higher or lower than our expectation. Additionally, we expect an increase in the applicable margin rates used to determine the interest on our outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. If commodity prices fail to recover, or decline further, it is likely that we will be subject to a further reduction in our borrowing base at our scheduled redetermination in the fall of 2016. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains various financial covenants. Sustained low prices, or further decreases in oil, NGL and natural gas prices, may result in our breach of those covenants. Our business requires significant capital expenditures, and we may not be able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. For example, according to our year-end 2015 reserve report, the estimated future capital required to develop our current proved oil and gas reserves is $935 million. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures 16 Table of Contents through a combination of cash flows from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and public equity and debt financings. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, including the production from existing wells, prices of oil, NGLs and gas and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If commodity prices do not recover or if they decline further, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to cover our current or future capital expenditure budgets, and we may have limited ability to obtain the additional capital necessary to fully develop our proved reserves. In addition we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could cause us to scale back our exploration and development operations, which in turn would lead to a decline in our oil and gas production and reserves, and in some areas a loss of properties. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and other commitments, including our obligations under our $230.3 million principal amount of Senior Notes and $273 million in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt. Many of these factors, such as oil and gas prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy and initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: • selling assets; • reducing or delaying capital investments; • seeking to raise additional capital; or • refinancing or restructuring our debt. If, for any reason, we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable, which would in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between the relevant agreements. In addition, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings, or they could prevent us from making payments on the Senior Notes. If amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility or the Senior Notes were to be accelerated, we cannot be certain that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Our lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may materially impact our operations. At December 31, 2015, we had $273 million in borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility, and our borrowing base was $450 million. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is redetermined semi-annually based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. In addition to such semi-annual redeterminations, our lenders may request one additional redetermination during any 12-month period. We expect that our borrowing base will be redetermined in the first quarter or early second quarter of 2016. We expect that the redetermination will result in a material reduction in our borrowing base in the range of 20% to 30%, but there is no assurance that the decrease will not be higher or lower than our expectation. Upon a further redetermination, our borrowing base could be reduced again, and if the amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility at any time exceeds the borrowing base at such time, we may be required to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings. If the significant reduction in commodity prices continues or accelerates, it is likely that our borrowing base will be reduced further in the next semi-annual borrowing base redetermination. We use cash flow from operations and bank borrowings to fund our exploration, development and acquisition activities. A reduction in our borrowing base could limit those activities. In addition, we may 17 Table of Contents significantly change our capital structure to cover our working capital needs, make future acquisitions or develop our properties. Changes in capital structure may significantly increase our debt. If we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we now face could intensify. A higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance, which is affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes contain operating and financial restrictions and covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities or that economic conditions and commodity prices may cause us to breach. Our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • sell assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • redeem or prepay other debt; • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our common stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; • create or incur certain liens; • make certain acquisitions and investments; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; • enter into financing transactions; and • engage in certain business activities. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our revolving credit facility and Indenture also contain financial covenants. Our ability to comply with some of the covenants and restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and the Indenture may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions do not improve, or if commodity prices remain at their current depressed levels, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests in our revolving credit facility, the Indenture or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If an event of default under our revolving credit facility occurs and remains uncured, the lenders: • would not be required to lend any additional amounts to us; • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable; • may have the ability to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or • may prevent us from making debt service payments under our other agreements. 18 Table of Contents A payment default or an acceleration under our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default and acceleration of indebtedness under the Senior Notes. If the indebtedness under the Senior Notes were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness in full. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are collateralized by perfected first-priority liens and security interests on substantially all of our Permian Basin assets in West Texas and a pledge of equity interests of certain subsidiaries, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Price declines during 2015 resulted in a material write down of the carrying values of our properties, and further price declines could result in additional write downs in the future, which would negatively impact our net income and results of operations. Additionally, current SEC rules also could require us to write down our proved undeveloped reserves in the future. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down is a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of our properties increases when oil and gas prices are low or volatile. During the third quarter of 2015, we recorded an impairment loss of $214.7 million related primarily to our vertical Canyon wells as a result of a sharp decline in forward commodity prices at the measurement date. Prices have remained volatile and depressed since the third quarter of 2015. This and other factors could cause a future, additional write down of capitalized costs and a non-cash charge against future earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. In addition, current SEC rules require that proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless specific circumstances justify a longer time. This rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our development projects. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill those wells within the required timeframe or if continued, depressed prices cause us to change our development plan to decrease the number of wells to be drilled over the five-year period. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2015, we reclassified 11.9 MMBoe of proved reserves to unproved reserves attributable to horizontal and vertical well locations in Project Pangea that are no longer expected to be developed within five years from their initial booking, as required by SEC rules. The estimated volumes, standardized measure and present value of future net revenues (“PV-10”) from our proved reserves as of December 31, 2015, calculated using SEC pricing will be higher than these measures calculated using current market prices. Standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Standardized measure requires the use of specific pricing as required by the SEC as well as operating and development costs prevailing as of the date of computation. The non-GAAP financial measure, PV-10, is based on the average of the closing price on the first day of the month for the 12-month period prior to fiscal year end. Our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2015, and related PV-10 and standardized measure, were calculated under SEC rules using 12-month trailing average benchmark prices of $50.16 per Bbl of oil, $15.13 per Bbl of NGLs and $2.64 per Mcf of gas. At the end of January 2016, the prompt month NYMEX-WTI 19 Table of Contents futures price for oil was $33.62 per Bbl and the prompt month NYMEX-Henry Hub futures price for gas was $2.29 per MMBtu. Our realized price for NGLs was $8.33 per Bbl for the month ended December 31, 2015. Using lower commodity prices than those required by the SEC would reduce the PV-10 and standardized measure of our proved reserves and result in a reduction of proved reserves due to economic limit. A decrease of 10% or 25% in the oil, NGL and gas prices used in our reserve report as of December 31, 2015, holding production and development costs constant, would result in: • a decrease in our PV-10 as of December 31, 2015 of 27% and 49%, respectively, • a decrease in our total proved reserves of 36% and 64%, respectively, and • a decrease in our proved undeveloped reserves of 56% and 98%, respectively. Actual future net revenues and reserve volumes also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, prevailing operating and development costs, supply and demand for oil and gas, increases or decreases in consumption and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. Consequently, standardized measure and PV-10 may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of varying market conditions, nor may they reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flow may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. Therefore, the standardized measure of our estimated reserves and PV-10 included in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current fair value of our proved reserves. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating PV-10 may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. The issuance of shares in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may issue common stock or other securities to raise cash for debt reduction, working capital or acquisitions. We also may acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We also may issue securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in our company, reduce our earnings per share and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, sales or issuances of a substantial amount of our common stock, or the perception that these sales or issuances may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities. Our stock price has been and could remain volatile, which further could adversely affect the market price of our stock and our ability to raise additional capital and cause us to be subject to securities class action litigation. The market price of our common stock has experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. In 2015, the price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $9.57 per share to a low of $1.23 per share. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies in the energy sector, and particularly in the upstream sector. Such market price volatility could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. In addition, we may be subject to securities class action litigation as a result of the decline in the price of our common stock, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents If our stock price trades below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, our common stock may be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. If at any time the bid price of our common stock closes at below $1.00 per share for more than 30 consecutive trading days, we may be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. If we receive a delisting notice, we would have 180 calendar days to regain compliance, during which time we would anticipate reviewing our options to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirements, including conducting a reverse stock split. To the extent that we are unable to resolve the listing deficiency, there is a risk that our common stock may be delisted from NASDAQ, which would adversely impact liquidity of our common stock and potentially result in even lower bid prices for our common stock. As of February 29, 2016, our stock had traded at a 52 week low of $0.60 per share, and a 52 week high of $9.57 per share. Our closing share price on February 29, 2016, was $0.75. We may experience differentials to benchmark prices in the future, which may be material. Substantially all of our production is sold to purchasers at prices that reflect a discount to other relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX-WTI. The difference between a benchmark price and the price we reference in our sales contracts is called a basis differential. Basis differentials result from variances in regional prices compared to benchmark prices as a result of regional supply and demand factors. We may experience differentials to benchmark prices in the future, which may be material. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and gas. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing interest in alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We engage in commodity derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business. To manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our production, we enter into commodity derivative agreements. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if commodity prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the commodity derivative. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is lower than expected. We are also exposed to the risk of non-performance by the counterparties to the commodity derivative agreements. Due to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”), the derivative transactions we execute are undertaken in a highly regulated market. While many of the rules implementing the Dodd-Frank statute are in place at this time, some significant components of the Dodd-Frank regulatory regime remain subject to rulemaking by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and other regulators. Although we have hedged a portion of our estimated 2016 production, our hedging program may be inadequate to protect us against continuing and prolonged declines in the price of oil and natural gas. Currently we have commodity price derivative agreements on approximately 547,500 Bbls of oil and on approximately 6,400,000 MMBtu of natural gas hedged with swaps in 2016 at average prices of $51.33 per Bbl and $2.60 per MMBtu, respectively. These derivative contracts will not protect us from a continuing and prolonged decline in the price of oil and natural gas for the unhedged portion of our production in 2016 or our production after 2016. We have not entered into any significant derivative transactions for our anticipated 2017 oil or gas production. To the extent that the prices for oil and gas remain at current levels or decline further, we 21 Table of Contents will not be able to hedge future production at the same level as our current hedges, and our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted. We are subject to complex governmental laws and regulations that may adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of doing business. Our oil and gas drilling, production and gathering operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. To operate in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and approvals from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs to comply with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations apply to our operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by government authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Business — Regulation” for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives and private litigation relating to hydraulic fracturing could stop or delay our development project and result in materially increased costs and additional operating restrictions. All of our proved non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves associated with future drilling and completion projects will require hydraulic fracturing. See Item 1. “Business — Hydraulic Fracturing” for a discussion of the importance of hydraulic fracturing to our business, and Item 1. “Business — Regulation —Hydraulic Fracturing” for a discussion of regulatory developments regarding hydraulic fracturing. If these or any other new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to drill and produce from our proved reserves, as well as make it easier for third parties opposing hydraulic fracturing to initiate legal proceedings. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and also to permitting delays and increases in costs. These developments, as well as new laws or regulations, could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of our failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to use hydraulic fracturing in completing our wells or hydraulic fracturing becomes prohibited or significantly regulated or restricted, we could lose the ability to drill and complete the projects for our proved reserves and maintain our current leasehold acreage, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations substantially depend on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain, dispose of or recycle water may impact our ability to execute our drilling and development plans in a timely or cost-effective manner. Water is an essential component of our drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have been able to secure water from local landowners and other sources for use in our operations. From 2011 through 2014, West Texas experienced extreme drought conditions. As a result of the severe drought, governmental authorities restricted the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing to protect the local water supply. Although such restrictions have been lifted, if West Texas experiences further drought conditions the restrictions may return. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations, we may be unable to economically produce oil, NGLs and gas, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, 22 Table of Contents development or production of oil and gas. For example, in October 2014, the RRC published a final rule governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements for the disposal, withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or ground water necessary for hydraulic fracturing may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or cessation of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and all of which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Climate change legislation or regulations regulating emissions of GHGs and VOCs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas we produce. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, the EPA adopted regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA also issued final regulations under the NSPS and NESHAP designed to reduce VOCs. See Item 1. “Business — Regulation — Environmental Laws and Regulations — Greenhouse Gas Emissions” and “ — Air Emissions” for a discussion of regulatory developments regarding GHG and VOC emissions. While Congress has from time-to-time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, no significant legislation has been adopted to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of GHG cap-and-trade programs. Most of these cap-and-trade programs require either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances are expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. If Congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on operations and reduce demand for refined products. In any event, in 2013 the Obama administration announced its Climate Action Plan, which, among other things, directs federal agencies to develop a strategy for the reduction of methane emissions, including emissions from the oil and gas industry. The EPA is in the process of gathering information regarding methane emissions from the oil and gas industry and the agency may decide to pursue formal rulemaking in the future. As part of the Climate Action Plan, the Obama administration also announced that it intends to adopt additional regulations to reduce emissions of GHGs and to encourage greater use of low-carbon technologies in the coming years. On an international level, the United States is one of almost 200 nations that agreed in December 2015 to an international climate change agreement in Paris, France that calls for countries to set their own GHG emissions targets and be transparent about the measures each country will use to achieve its GHG emissions targets. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG or VOC emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG or VOC emissions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our oil and gas operations due to the handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and generated wastes, the occurrence of air emissions 23 Table of Contents and water discharges from work-related activities and the legacy of pollution from historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. We may incur joint and several or strict liability under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with spills, leaks or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, some of which have been used for exploration, production or development activities for many years and by third parties not under our control. In particular, the number of private, civil lawsuits involving hydraulic fracturing has risen in recent years. Since late 2009, multiple private lawsuits alleging ground water contamination have been filed in the U.S. against oil and gas companies, primarily by landowners who leased oil and gas rights to defendants, or by landowners who live close to areas where hydraulic fracturing has taken place. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Changes in tax laws or fees may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The administration of President Obama has made budget proposals which, if enacted into law by Congress, would potentially increase and accelerate the payment of U.S. federal income taxes and fees by independent oil and gas producers. Proposals have included, but have not been limited to, repealing the enhanced oil recovery credit, repealing the credit for oil and gas produced from marginal wells, repealing the expensing of intangible drilling costs (“IDCs”), repealing the deduction for the cost of qualified tertiary expenses, repealing the exception to the passive loss limitation for working interests in oil and gas properties, repealing the percentage depletion allowance, repealing the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies, instituting a $10 per barrel fee on oil and increasing the amortization period of geological and geophysical expenses. Legislation that would have implemented many of the proposed changes has been introduced but not enacted. It is unclear whether legislation supporting any of the above described proposals, or designed to accomplish similar objectives, will be introduced or, if introduced, would be enacted into law or, if enacted, how soon resulting changes would become effective. However, the passage of any legislation designed to implement changes in the U.S. federal income tax laws or fees similar to the changes included in the budget proposals offered by the Obama administration could eliminate certain tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such changes could make it more costly for us to explore for and develop our oil and gas resources, and could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our future reserve and production growth depends on the success of our Wolfcamp oil shale resource play, which has a limited operational history and is subject to change. We began drilling wells in the Wolfcamp play relatively recently. The wells that have been drilled or recompleted in these areas represent a small sample of our large acreage position, and we cannot assure you that our new wells will be successful. We continue to gather data about our prospects in the Wolfcamp play, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to change our drilling schedule or determine that prospects in some portion of our acreage position should not be developed at all. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. Our operations involve using some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to: • landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone; • staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; • running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and • being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. 24 Table of Contents Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to: • the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; • the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and • the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated and we could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. Failure to effectively execute and manage our single major development project, Project Pangea, could result in significant delays, cost overruns, limitation of our growth, damage to our reputation and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe we have an extensive inventory of identified drilling locations in our development project (Project Pangea) in the Wolfcamp shale oil resource play; however, Project Pangea is our core asset and our only development project. As we achieve more results in Project Pangea, we have expanded our horizontal development project there. This level of development activity requires significant effort from our management and technical personnel and places additional requirements on our financial resources and internal operating and financial controls. Our ability to successfully develop and manage this project will depend on, among other things: • our ability to finance development of the project; • the extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal Wolfcamp wells; • our ability to control costs and manage drilling and completion risks; • our ability to attract, retain and train qualified personnel with the skills required to develop the project in a timely and cost-effective manner; and • our ability to implement and maintain effective operating and financial controls and reporting systems necessary to develop and operate the project. We may not be able to compensate for, or fully mitigate, these risks. Currently, substantially all of our producing properties are located in two counties in Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one primary area. Substantially all of our producing properties and estimated proved reserves are concentrated in Crockett and Schleicher Counties, Texas. As a result of this concentration, we are disproportionately exposed to the natural decline of production from these fields as well as the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailments of production, service delays, natural disasters or other events that impact this area. Because of our geographic concentration, our purchaser base is limited, and the loss of one of our key purchasers or their inability to take our oil, NGLs or gas could adversely affect our financial results. In 2015, JP Energy and DCP collectively accounted for 99% of our total oil, NGL and gas sales, excluding realized commodity derivative settlements. As of December 31, 2015, we had dedicated all of our oil production from northern Project Pangea and Pangea West through 2022 to JP Energy. In addition, as of December 31, 25 Table of Contents 2015, we had dedicated all of our NGL and natural gas production from Project Pangea to DCP through July 2023. To the extent that any of our major purchasers reduces their purchases of oil, NGLs or gas, is unable to take our oil, NGLs or gas due to infrastructure or capacity limitations or defaults on their obligations to us, we would be adversely affected unless we were able to make comparably favorable arrangements with other purchasers. These purchasers’ default or non-performance could be caused by factors beyond our control. A default could occur as a result of circumstances relating directly to one or more of these customers or due to circumstances related to other market participants with which the customer has a direct or indirect relationship. We depend on our management team and other key personnel. The loss of any of these individuals, or the inability to attract, train and retain additional qualified personnel, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and the results of operations and future growth. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our management team and other key personnel and the ability to attract, train and retain additional qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or of our other employees with critical skills needed to operate our business could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. In January 2011, we entered into an amended and restated employment agreement with J. Ross Craft, P.E., our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and new employment agreements with Qingming Yang, our Chief Operating Officer; and J. Curtis Henderson, our Chief Administrative Officer. On January 3, 2014, we entered into an employment agreement with Sergei Krylov as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to effectively train, motivate and manage our existing employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. Market conditions or transportation and infrastructure impediments may hinder our access to oil, NGL and gas markets or delay our production or sales. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil, NGL and gas processing and transportation services and infrastructure may hinder our access to oil, NGL and gas markets or delay our production or sales. Although currently we control the gathering systems for our operations in the Permian Basin, we do not have such control over the regional or downstream pipelines in and out of the Permian Basin. The availability of a ready market for our oil, NGL and gas production depends on a number of factors, including market demand and the proximity of our reserves to pipelines or trucking and rail terminal facilities. In addition, the amount of oil, NGLs and gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to maintenance, excessive pressure, ability of downstream processing facilities to accept unprocessed gas or NGLs, physical damage or operational interruptions to the gathering or transportation system or downstream processing and fractionation facilities or lack of contracted capacity on such systems or facilities. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, we are provided with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. As a result, we may not be able to sell, or may have to transport by more expensive means, the oil, NGL and gas that we produce, or we may be required to shut in oil or gas wells or delay initial production until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are available. Any significant curtailment in gathering systems, transportation, pipeline capacity or significant delay in construction of necessary gathering and transportation facilities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Loss of our information and computer systems could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We heavily depend on our information systems and computer-based programs, including drilling, completion and production data, seismic data, electronic data processing and accounting data. If any of these programs or systems were to fail or create erroneous information in our hardware or software network infrastructure, possible consequences include our loss of communication links, inability to find, produce, process and sell oil, NGLs and gas and inability to automatically process commercial transactions or engage in similar automated or computerized business activities. In addition, the U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. A cyber incident involving our information systems and related infrastructure could disrupt our business plans and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. Any such consequence could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If commodity prices recover, the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, materials, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our drilling and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time-to-time, during periods of higher commodity prices there is a shortage of drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing services, equipment, supplies or qualified service personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of equipment, oilfield services and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling and completion crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production will increase the demand for oilfield services, and the costs of these services may increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. If the availability of equipment, crews, materials and services in the Permian Basin is particularly severe, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in the Permian Basin. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and gas and securing equipment and skilled personnel. Many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and gas companies that have financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to develop and operate our current project, acquire additional prospects and discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and gas industry. Larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of low commodity prices and unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing oil, NGLs and gas and raising additional capital. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could prevent them from being drilled or delay their drilling. In certain instances, this could prevent drilling and production before the expiration date of leases for such locations. Our management team has identified drilling locations as an estimation of our future development activities on our existing acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these identified drilling locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil, NGL and gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling 27 Table of Contents services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system, marketing and transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the identified drilling locations will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or gas from these or any other identified drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the identified locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. Therefore, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified. The use of geoscientific, petrophysical and engineering analyses and other technical or operating data to evaluate drilling prospects is uncertain and does not guarantee drilling success or recovery of economically producible reserves. Our decisions to explore, develop and acquire prospects or properties targeting Wolfcamp and other zones in the Permian Basin and other areas depend on data obtained through geoscientific, petrophysical and engineering analyses, the results of which can be uncertain. Even when properly used and interpreted, data from whole cores, regional well log analyses, 3-D seismic and micro-seismic only assist our technical team in identifying hydrocarbon indicators and subsurface structures and estimating hydrocarbons in place. They do not allow us to know conclusively the amount of hydrocarbons in place and if those hydrocarbons are producible economically. In addition, the use of advanced drilling and completion technologies for our Wolfcamp development, such as horizontal drilling and multi-stage fracture stimulations, requires greater expenditures than our traditional development drilling strategies. Our ability to commercially recover and produce the hydrocarbons that we believe are in place and attributable to the Wolfcamp and other zones will depend on the effective use of advanced drilling and completion techniques, the scope of our development project (which will be directly affected by the availability of capital), drilling and production costs, availability of drilling and completion services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, regulatory approval and geological and mechanical factors affecting recovery rates. Our estimates of unproved reserves, estimated ultimate recoveries per well, hydrocarbons in place and resource potential may change significantly as development of our oil and gas assets provides additional data. Unless we replace our oil and gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline. Our future oil and gas production depends on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we fail to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our production, revenues and cash flows will be adversely affected. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced, unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be limited to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. We have leases for undeveloped acreage that may expire in the near future. As of December 31, 2015, we held mineral leases in each of our areas of operation that are still within their original lease term and are not currently held by production. Unless we continue to develop and produce on the properties subject to these leases, most of these leases will expire between 2016 and 2018. If these leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties, unless we renew such leases. The cost to renew such leases may increase significantly, and we may not be able to renew such leases on commercially reasonable terms or at all. See Item 2. “Properties — Undeveloped Acreage Expirations” for a table summarizing the expiration schedule of our undeveloped acreage over the next three years. Acreage set to expire over the next three years accounts for 28% of our net acreage, and less than 1% of our proved undeveloped reserves. 28 Table of Contents Our actual production, revenues and expenditures related to our reserves are likely to differ from our estimates of our proved reserves. We may experience production that is less than estimated and drilling costs that are greater than estimated in our reserve reports. These differences may be material. The proved oil, NGL and gas reserves data included in this report are estimates. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, NGL and gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including: • historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas; • the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • assumptions concerning future oil, NGL and gas prices; and • assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs. Because all reserves estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: • the quantities of oil, NGL and gas that are ultimately recovered; • the production and operating costs incurred; • the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and • future oil, NGL and gas prices. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 63% of our proved reserves were proved undeveloped. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are even less reliable than estimates of proved developed reserves. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and future net revenues based on the same available data. Our actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be material. Severe weather could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: • curtailment of services, including oil, NGL and gas pipelines, processing plants and trucking services; • weather-related damage to drilling rigs, resulting in a temporary suspension of operations; • weather-related damage to our producing wells or facilities; • inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; and • loss of production. Operating hazards or other interruptions of our operations could result in potential liabilities, which may not be fully covered by our insurance. The oil and gas business involves certain operating hazards such as well blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of gas, oil or well fluids, fires, surface and subsurface pollution and contamination, and releases of toxic gas. The occurrence of one of the above may result in injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage and remediation and/or governmental investigations and penalties. Consistent with insurance coverage generally available to the industry, our insurance policies provide limited coverage for losses or liabilities relating to pollution, with broader coverage for sudden and accidental occurrences. Our 29 Table of Contents insurance might be inadequate to cover our liabilities. The insurance market, in general, and the energy insurance market, in particular, have been difficult markets over the past several years. Insurance costs are expected to continue to increase over the next few years, and we may decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and could be negatively impacted in the future as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal variations in oil, NGL and gas prices, variations in levels of production and the completion of development projects. If commodity prices do not improve or worsen or if we are unable to increase our liquidity, we could experience downgrades from ratings agencies. In February 2016, we were downgraded by two ratings agencies. If commodity prices do not improve or worsen or if we are unable to increase our liquidity, we could experience further downgrades in our corporate or debt ratings. Credit rating agencies continually review their ratings for the companies and for the securities they follow. A negative change in our ratings or the perception that such a change could occur may adversely affect the market price of our securities. We have renounced any interest in specified business opportunities, and certain members of our board of directors and certain of our stockholders generally have no obligation to offer us those opportunities. In accordance with Delaware law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter in which our outside directors and certain of our stockholders, each referred to as a Designated Party, participates or desires to participate in, that involves any aspect of the exploration and production business in the oil and gas industry. If any such business opportunity is presented to a Designated Party who also serves as a member of our board of directors, the Designated Party has no obligation to communicate or offer that opportunity to us, and the Designated Party may pursue the opportunity as he sees fit, unless: • it was presented to the Designated Party solely in that person’s capacity as a director of our Company and with respect to which, at the time of such presentment, no other Designated Party has independently received notice of, or otherwise identified the business opportunity; or • the opportunity was identified by the Designated Party solely through the disclosure of information by or on behalf of us. As a result of this renunciation, our outside directors should not be deemed to have breached any fiduciary duty to us if they or their affiliates or associates pursue opportunities as described above and our future competitive position and growth potential could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 30 Table of Contents 