D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business is susceptible to fluctuations in the real estate market of China, especially in certain areas of eastern China where a significant portion of our operations are concentrated, which may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We conduct our real estate services business primarily in China. Our business depends substantially on the conditions of the PRC real estate market. Demand for private residential real estate in China has grown rapidly in recent years but such growth is often coupled with volatility in market conditions and fluctuation in real estate prices. For example, the rapid expansion of the real estate market in major provinces and cities in China in the early 1990s, such as Shanghai, Beijing and Guangdong Province, led to an oversupply in the mid-1990s and a corresponding fall in real estate values and rentals in the second half of the decade. Since the late 1990s, real estate prices and the number of new real estate development projects have been generally increasing in major cities. Fluctuations of supply and demand in China’s real estate market are caused by economic, social, political and other factors. To the extent fluctuations in the real estate market adversely affect real estate transaction volumes or prices, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As a significant portion of our operations is concentrated in Shanghai, Jiangsu Province and Zhejiang Province, where we generated in the aggregate approximately 63.1%, 44.8% and 39.7% of our total revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, any decrease in demand or real estate prices or any other adverse developments in these regions may materially and adversely affect our total real estate transaction volumes and average selling prices, which may in turn adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by government measures aimed at China’s real estate industry. The real estate industry in China is subject to government regulations. In recent years, the real estate markets in a number of major cities in China have experienced rapid and significant growth. The PRC government has responded with a series of administrative measures to restrain what it perceived as unsustainable growth in the real estate market. Specific administrative and credit-control measures introduced by the PRC government since 2003 include, among others, the following: • requiring real estate developers to fund with their internal resources 35% rather than 20% of the total projected capital outlays of any real estate development; • restricting credit availability based on the criteria that monthly housing expense, including mortgage payments and property service fees, to 50% of an individual borrower’s monthly income, and limiting all monthly debt service payments of an individual borrower to 55% of his or her monthly income; and 4 Table of Contents • tightening regulations governing mortgage lending and restricting approval of areas for new development. In 2006, the State Council and other related government agencies introduced additional measures to further curtail the real estate sector growth, including, among others: • requiring that at least 70% of the land approved by a local government for residential real estate development for any given year be used for developing low- to medium-cost and small- to medium-sized units and low-cost rental properties; • requiring that at least 70% of the total development and construction area of residential projects approved, or construction which commenced, on or after June 1, 2006 within each city or county, consist of units with a floor area of less than 90 square meters per unit; • increasing the minimum down payment from 20% to 30% of the purchase price for property with a unit floor area of 90 square meters or more; and • imposing a business tax on the proceeds from re-sale of properties held for less than five years. In July 2006, several government agencies issued an official opinion, signaling the pending implementation of measures to limit investment by overseas entities or individuals in the real estate sector in China. In December 2006, the State Administration of Taxation issued a circular, effective February 1, 2007, requiring real estate developers to settle and clear all land appreciation tax payments as required by existing law. In September 2007, the People’s Bank of China and China Banking Regulatory Commission promulgated the Circular on Strengthening the Management of Commercial Real Estate Credit Loans, and subsequently issued a supplement in December 2007. The circular aims to tighten control over real estate loans from commercial banks to prevent excessive granting of credit. The measures adopted include, among other things: • for a first-time home owner, increasing the minimum amount of down payment to 30% of the purchase price of the underlying property if the underlying property has a unit floor area of 90 square meters or more and the purchaser is buying the property as his/her own residence; • for a second-time home buyer, increasing (i) the minimum amount of down payment to 40% of the purchase price of the underlying property and (ii) the minimum mortgage loan interest rate to 110% of the relevant benchmark lending interest rate of the People’s Bank of China; • for a commercial real estate buyer, (i) requiring banks not to finance any purchase of pre-sold properties, (ii) increasing the minimum amount of down payment to 50% of the purchase price of the underlying property, (iii) increasing the minimum mortgage loan interest rate to 110% of the relevant benchmark lending interest rate of People’s Bank of China, (iv) limiting the terms of such bank loans to no more than ten years, although the commercial banks are allowed flexibility based on its risk assessment; and • for a buyer of commercial/residential dual-purpose properties, increasing the minimum amount of down payment to 45% of the purchase price of the underlying property, with the other terms to be decided by reference to commercial properties. On October 31, 2007, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China issued the amended Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, effective since December 1, 2007, which classifies real estate agency and real estate brokerage in the restricted category of foreign investment industries. These and possible future measures taken by the PRC government aimed at maintaining long-term stability of the real estate market may result in short-term downward adjustments and uncertainty in the market. Our business may be materially and adversely affected as a result of decreased transaction volumes or real estate prices that may follow these adjustments or market uncertainty. 5 Table of Contents The real estate services industry in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving, and if this industry does not develop or mature as quickly as we expect, the growth and success of our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our development has depended, and will continue to depend, substantially on the growth of the real estate services industry in China, which is relatively new. We cannot predict the rate of growth, if any, of this industry. The development of the real estate services industry depends on, among other factors, real estate developers’ continuing outsourcing of non-core sales and other functions to professional real estate services companies, and the continued use by real estate sellers and buyers of real estate agency services in China and particularly in specific regions where we operate. The failure of the real estate services industry to develop rapidly may materially and adversely affect the growth and success of our business. If the value of our brand or image diminishes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We believe our “E-House” brand is associated with a leading integrated real estate services company with consistent high-quality services among both real estate developers and individual real estate buyers in China. Our brand is integral to our sales and marketing efforts. Our continued success in maintaining and enhancing our brand and image depends to a large extent on our ability to satisfy customer needs by further developing and maintaining quality of services across our operations, as well as our ability to respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to satisfy customer needs or if our public image or reputation were otherwise diminished, our business transactions with our customers may decline which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of expanding into new geographical markets in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We plan to continue to expand our business into new geographical areas in and outside China. As China is a large and diverse market, consumer trends and demands may vary significantly by region and our experience in the markets in which we currently operate may not be applicable in other parts of China. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our experience to expand into other parts of China. When we enter new markets, we may face intense competition from companies with greater experience or an established presence in the targeted geographical areas or from other companies with similar expansion targets. In addition, our business model may not be successful in new and untested markets and markets with a different legal and business environment, such as Hong Kong and Macau. Therefore, we may not be able to grow our revenues in the new cities we enter into due to the substantial costs involved. If we cannot manage our growth, our operating results or profitability could be adversely affected. We have experienced substantial growth since our inception. We increased our revenues and our net income from $38.7 million and $11.1 million, respectively, in 2005, to $121.0 million and $41.7 million, respectively, in 2007, and we intend to continue to expand our operations. This expansion has placed, and will continue to place, substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological and other resources. Our planned expansion will also place significant demands on us to maintain the quality of our services to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any deviations, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our services. In order to manage and support our growth, we must continue to improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain additional qualified real estate service professionals as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified personnel and integrate new expansion into our operations. As a result, our quality of service may deteriorate and our reputation may suffer. If we fail to successfully execute the business plans for our strategic alliances and other new business initiatives, our anticipated growth and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We recently formed strategic alliances with several leading real estate developers in China such as China Vanke Co., Ltd., or Vanke, Evergrande Real Estate Group, or Evergrande, Neo-China (Group) Holdings Ltd., or Neo-China, and Central China Real Estate Group, or Jianye. Under these strategic cooperation arrangements, we 6 Table of Contents will act as the exclusive sales agent for over 40 projects across China with over 30 million square meters of gross floor area, or GFA, involved in aggregate. The success of these strategic alliances depends on, among others, our successful sales and marketing of the projects and properties and the developers’ ability to make timely delivery of properties in satisfactory quality and quantity. If we fail to successfully market and sell these new properties, we may not be able to continue the existing strategic alliances or enter into new strategic relationships with leading real estate developers and our anticipated growth and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, according to various agreements under our strategic cooperate arrangement with Evergrande, in December 2007 we paid an aggregate of approximately RMB800 million ($106.8 million) as customer deposits to Evergrande, which are fully and unconditionally refundable within three to six months after the commencement of sales of the Evergrande projects. If the commencement of the sales of the Evergrande projects is delayed substantially and if we continue to pay material customer deposits to our developer clients before we begin to generate revenues from their projects, we may not recover the deposits in a timely manner, in full or at all, and accordingly our liquidity and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we have in the past entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, contracts from time to time with developers requiring us to pay deposits, which could have a material effect on our cash flow or, if we fail to recover all or a portion of such deposits through subsequent sales, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. In January 2008, we further expanded our service offerings by managing a new real estate investment fund formed to invest in China’s fast growing real estate sector through diversified investment strategies. We have limited experience in managing a real estate investment fund. If we fail to identify and invest in projects which would generate reasonable returns as expected by the investors of the fund, we may not be able to raise additional funds to further expand our real estate investment management business, which in turn may adversely affect our anticipated growth and prospects. In February 2008, we formed a new venture with SINA Corporation, a leading Internet portal in China, to build the largest online real estate portal in China. SINA is spinning off its real estate channel and home decoration channel and contributing the related online advertising business into the new company, while we will provide an exclusive license of our proprietary CRIC database to the new company and will develop certain online products and related fee-based services for the new company. The new company is a majority owned subsidiary of SINA and under SINA’s management. We have limited experience in operating an online real estate portal. The new company may not be able to realize the commercial potential of the CRIC database or achieve its growth targets, which may adversely affect our share of the anticipated profits from the new company. We undertook an extensive trial related to our CRIC subscription services, during which we offered basic access to the CRIC database free of charge to more than 5,000 real estate developers. Subsequently, we formally launched our fee-based CRIC subscription service in April 2008. This service will provide basic access to the database for a flat annual subscription fee and value-added services for premium fees to suit the special needs of our customers. If we fail to generate sufficient demand for our fee-based CRIC subscription services or fail to provide the premium services requested by our customers, our anticipated growth and prospect may be adversely affected. In addition, if our paying subscribers are dissatisfied with the content and functions of the CRIC database, the number of paying subscribers may decline, which would in turn adversely affect our results of operations. We may lose our competitive advantage if we fail to maintain and improve our proprietary CRIC system or prevent disruptions or failure in the performance of our CRIC system. We have devoted substantial resources to developing, maintaining and updating our CRIC system. Our ability to provide consistent high-quality services and maintain our competitive advantage relies in large part on the CRIC system to provide up-to-date information and additional value-added features and services. If we fail to maintain and improve the quality and functionalities of the CRIC system, the system will become outdated and we may lose our competitive advantage. Any frequent or recurring disruption or failure in the performance of our CRIC system could also adversely affect the quality of our services and damage our reputation and our effort to successfully market the CRIC system. Our system is vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, fires, floods, earthquakes, hacking or other attempts to disrupt our systems, and similar events. Our servers, which are located in Shanghai, may also be vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Our disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, the quality of our services and our reputation could be harmed. The steps we need to take to increase the reliability of our CRIC system and to maintain complete backup may be costly, which could reduce our operating margin, and such steps may not reduce the frequency or duration of system failures and service interruptions. 7 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete successfully, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We operate in the primary real estate agency services market, secondary real estate brokerage services market and real estate consulting and information services market. We encounter intense competition in each of these markets on a national, regional and local level. Competition in the industry is primarily based on quality of services, brand name recognition, geographic coverage, commission rates and range of services. As compared to real estate development, providing real estate services does not require significant capital commitments. This low barrier to entry allows new competitors to enter our markets with relative ease. New and existing competitors may offer competitive rates, greater convenience or superior services, which could attract customers away from us, resulting in lower revenues for our operations. Competition among real estate services companies may cause a decrease in commission rates we receive and higher costs to attract or retain talented employees. Although we are one of the largest real estate services companies in China, our relative competitive position varies significantly by service type and geographic area. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively, maintain our current fee arrangements or margin levels or ensure that we will not encounter increased competition. Many of our competitors are local or regional firms, such as World Union Real Estate Consultancy (China) Ltd. and Hopefluent Group Holdings Limited, whose aggregate business may be smaller than ours but which may be more established and have greater market presence and brand name recognition on a local or regional basis. We are also subject to competition from other large national and international firms such as Jones Lang LaSalle and Century 21 China Real Estate. These firms may have more financial or other resources than us. If we fail to compete effectively, our business operations and financial condition will suffer. In addition to competition from traditional real estate services providers, the advent of the Internet has introduced new ways of providing real estate services, as well as new entrants and competitors in our industry. If our recent expansion into online real estate agency services can not be carried out successfully to capture the business opportunities presented by technological changes and the emergence of e-business, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Our results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate due to seasonal variations in the real estate market, the non-recurring nature of our primary real estate agency services, billing cycles and unpredictable development cycles. Our operating income and earnings have historically been substantially lower during the first quarter than other quarters. This results from the relatively low level of real estate activity during the winter and the Chinese New Year holiday period, which normally falls within the first quarter each year. We generated 89.2%, 81.6% and 83.1% of our total revenues from primary real estate agency services in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Although we are expanding our service offerings, we expect to continue to rely on primary real estate agency services to generate a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Revenues from primary real estate agency services are typically generated on a project-by-project basis and are non-recurring in nature. This may contribute to the fluctuations in our period-to-period operating results. We typically enter into agency agreements with developers shortly before they are expected to obtain permits to sell their newly developed properties. However, the timing of obtaining these sales permits varies from project to project and is subject to uncertain and potentially lengthy delays as developers need to obtain a series of other permits and approvals related to the development before obtaining the sales permit. It is therefore difficult to predict the interval between the time we sign these agency agreements and the time we launch the sale for the projects. In addition, as we typically settle the payment of our commissions with our developer clients at the end of a sales period based on successful sales achieved during the period, which typically lasts several months, our working capital levels are affected by the time lag between the time we actually make sales, bill our clients and collect the commissions owed to us. Furthermore, “successful sale,” as defined in individual contracts with our developer clients, depends on, among other things, the delivery of the down payment and some purchasers may not deliver the down payments on time. This makes it difficult for us to forecast revenues and cash flows and increases period-to-period fluctuations, which could cause the price of our ADSs to fluctuate or decline or adversely affect our working capital levels. Our reliance on a concentrated number of real estate developers may materially and adversely affect us. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, revenues derived from services we rendered to the top 10 clients in each of those years accounted for approximately 54.0%, 48.3% and 59.7%, respectively, of our total revenues. In the future, these 8 Table of Contents real estate developers, all of which are independent third parties, may not continue to engage our services at the same level, or at all. Should these real estate developers terminate or substantially reduce their business with us and we fail to find alternative real estate developers to provide us with revenue-generating business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to successfully sell the properties we contract to sell may be materially and adversely affected if our developer clients fail to make timely delivery of the properties or any of these properties experience significant quality defects, negative publicity or other problems. Our developer clients are responsible for the timely delivery and the quality of the properties we contract to sell. If our developer clients fail to make timely delivery of any of the properties or if any of these properties experiences significant quality defects, negative publicity or other problems, our ability to successfully sell the property may be materially and adversely affected and our reputation may also be harmed. This may in turn adversely affect our long-term ability to attract buyers for the properties we are contracted to sell. If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managerial and other employees, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We place substantial reliance on the real estate industry experience and knowledge of our senior management team as well as their relationships with other industry participants. Mr. Xin Zhou is particularly important to our future success due to his substantial experience and reputation in the real estate industry. We do not carry, and do not intend to procure, key person insurance on any of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team due to their departure, or otherwise, could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Finding suitable replacements for our current senior management could be difficult, and competition for such personnel of similar experience is intense. If we fail to retain our senior management, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our employees manage our operations and interact with our customers on a daily basis. They are critical to maintaining the quality and consistency of our services and our brand and reputation. It is important for us to attract qualified managerial and other employees who have experience in real estate related services and are committed to our service approach. There may be a limited supply of qualified individuals in some of the cities in China where we have operations and other cities into which we intend to expand. We must hire and train qualified managerial and other employees on a timely basis to keep pace with our rapid growth while maintaining consistent quality of services across our operations in various geographic locations. We must also provide continuous training to our managerial and other employees so that they are equipped with up-to-date knowledge of various aspects of our operations and can meet our demand for high-quality services. If we fail to do so, the quality of our services may decrease in one or more of the markets where we operate, which in turn, may cause a negative perception of our brand and adversely affect our business. Any failure to protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. We believe our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights are critical to our success. Any unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights could harm our competitive advantages and business. Historically, China has not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States or the Cayman Islands, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, we may lose these rights and our business may suffer materially. Our continuing reliance on our CRIC system depends in large part on retaining our proprietary rights in the CRIC system. We have imposed contractual obligations on employees and consultants and have taken other precautionary measures to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information and restricted the use of the proprietary information other than for the company’s benefit. If our employees and consultants do not honor their contractual obligations and misappropriate our database and other proprietary information, our business would suffer as a result. 9 Table of Contents As the right to use Internet domain names is not rigorously regulated in China, other companies have incorporated in their domain names elements similar in writing or pronunciation to the “E-House” trademark or its Chinese equivalent. This may result in confusion between those companies and our company and may lead to the dilution of our brand value, which could adversely affect our business. Copyright infringement and other intellectual property claims against us may adversely affect our business and our ability to operate our CRIC system. We have collected and compiled in the library of our CRIC system, real estate related news articles, reports, floor plans, architectural drawings, maps, and other documents and information prepared by third parties. We have signed an agreement with a news consolidator to obtain the right to use and reproduce copyright protected news and articles. We cannot assure you that the agreement covers all the copyright holders of news articles and reports in our library, that right holders to drawings, maps and other proprietary documents will not make infringement claims against us, or that we will not be subject to other potential copyright infringement claims. Moreover, we have in the past been subject to claims by individuals claiming rights in certain of the maps, drawings and documents made available on the CRIC system or otherwise provided to our clients. Any claims against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and costly to defend or litigate, divert our management’s attention and resources or result in loss of goodwill associated with our brand, and any judgments against us in such suits, or related settlements, could have a material impact on our ability to operate or market our CRIC system, harm our reputation and have a material adverse affect on our results of operation. If a lawsuit against us is successful, we may be required to pay damages or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be based upon commercially reasonable terms, or we may be unable to enter into such agreement at all. As a result, the scope of our library we offer to our clients could be reduced, which could adversely affect the usefulness of our CRIC system. If we fail to obtain or keep licenses and permits applicable to real estate brokerages, we may incur significant financial penalties and other government sanctions. Due to the broad geographic scope of our operations and the wide variety of real estate services we provide, we are subject to numerous national, regional and local laws and regulations specific to the services we perform. If we fail to properly file records or to obtain or maintain the licenses and permits for conducting our businesses, the relevant branch office or subsidiary may be ordered to cease conducting the relevant real estate services and be subject to warning, fines and revocation of its licenses. As the size and scope of real estate sale transactions have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the multiple levels of licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from non-compliance have increased. In addition to the licenses for our operations, our secondary real estate brokers are required to have the requisite qualification licenses to engage in secondary real estate brokerage services. These licenses must be renewed every one or two years. We are not certain that our secondary real estate brokers can obtain or renew these licenses in a timely manner, if at all. As the State Administration for Industry & Commerce, or its local counterparts, will only issue a license to us to set up and operate a secondary real estate brokerage storefront in certain cities when the storefront has at least five licensed real estate brokers, our business could suffer if our secondary real estate brokers are unable to obtain or renew these qualification licenses in those cities. We may be subject to liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage activities. As a licensed real estate broker, we and our licensed employees are subject to statutory obligations not to sell properties that fail to meet the statutory sales conditions or provide false statements on the conditions of any property in any advertisement. We must present clients with relevant title certificates or sales permits of the properties and the related letter of authorization. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us or our employees to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties we brokered. We or our employees may become subject to claims by other participants in real estate transactions claiming that we or our employees did not fulfill our statutory obligations as brokers. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation.” If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls 10 Table of Contents over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Prior to the initial public offering, we had been a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. For example, we did not begin reviewing the accounting issues under FIN 46(R) “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB 51” relating to two entities involved in our payments of the customer deposit in August and October 2006 to a developer client until after we began generating revenues from this developer client in the third quarter of 2007. Although we ultimately resolved the accounting issues in December 2007, this incident indicates the need for us to further improve our financial reporting procedures and expertise to ensure timely identification and analysis of potential accounting issues. During 2007, we became aware of a number of control deficiencies, including a material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness related to our lack of formal accounting policies or procedures, which may result in misapplication and inconsistent accounting treatment across reporting periods. We began the process to remediate this material weakness and other deficiencies by, among other measures, implementing additional control procedures and reinforcing the existing controls. We planned to remedy our material weakness and other control deficiencies in time to meet the deadline imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and devote significant management time and efforts and other resources to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth in China, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. As the real estate sector is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven across different periods, regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. For example, on January 3, 2008, the State Council issued a Notice on Promoting Economization of Land Use, which urges the full and effective use of existing construction land and the preservation of farming land. While some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, they may have a negative effect on the real estate industry in China. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Since late 2003, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio 11 Table of Contents and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines that had the effect of slowing the growth of credit availability. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect the Chinese economy and slow the growth of the real estate market in China. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC law and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently-enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income will be primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, for most capital account items, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions and foreign exchange regime and policy adopted by the PRC government. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 18.0% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and March 31, 2008. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in the RMB, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in the RMB. We rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China. Any significant fluctuations of the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. Any fluctuations of the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC domestic residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or the plan participants to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 requiring PRC domestic residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC domestic residents who are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies and have completed round trip 12 Table of Contents investments but did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. PRC resident shareholders are also required to amend their registrations with the local SAFE branch in certain circumstances. We are aware that our PRC domestic resident shareholders subject to the SAFE registration requirement have registered with the Shanghai SAFE branch and are in the process of amending certain applicable registrations with the Shanghai SAFE. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or make foreign-exchange-dominated loans to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, setting forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Employee Share Options.” We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends from our subsidiaries in China for our cash requirements, including any debt we may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to approval by relevant governmental authorities in China. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Loans to and Direct Investment in PRC Entities by Offshore Holding Companies.” 13 Table of Contents We may also decide to finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign-invested enterprises in China, depending on the amount of total investment, capital contributions to foreign-invested enterprises in China are subject to approval by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local branches. We may not obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Our business benefits from tax-related government incentives and discretionary policies. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives or policies could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For 2005, 2006 and 2007, E-House Shanghai enjoyed a reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate, while most of our other PRC subsidiaries were subject to a 33% enterprise income tax rate. The new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the new EIT Law, effective since January 1, 2008, applies a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate to both foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued the Notice of the State Council Concerning Implementation of Transitional Rules for Enterprise Income Tax Incentives, or Circular 39. Based on Circular 39, certain specifically listed categories of enterprises that enjoyed a preferential tax rate of 15% are eligible for a graduated rate increase to 25% over the 5-year period beginning from January 1, 2008. Specifically, the applicable rates under such an arrangement for such enterprises will be 18%, 20%, 22%, 24% and 25% for 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Circular 39 includes manufacturing enterprises located in Pudong New Area of Shanghai as qualifying for the five-year transition. Non-manufacturing enterprises located in Pudong New Area of Shanghai are not specifically listed in Circular 39, even though they were subject to the same 15% preferential income tax rate as manufacturing enterprises in Pudong. As a result, it is unclear whether E-House Shanghai will be subject to the graduated transition to statutory rate of 18% in 2008 or 25% income tax rate immediately. Various local governments in China have provided discretionary preferential tax treatments to us. However, at any time, these local governments may decide to reduce or eliminate these preferential tax treatments. Furthermore, these local implementations of tax laws may be found in violation of national laws or regulations, and as a consequence, we may be subject to retroactive imposition of higher taxes as a result. Starting from year 2007, we are required under Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48 to accrue taxes for these contingencies. The change in accounting requirement for reporting tax contingencies, any reduction or elimination of these preferential tax treatments and any retroactive imposition of higher taxes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Dividends payable to us by our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC withholding taxes, or we may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income and dividends distributed to our investors may be subject to PRC withholding taxes under the new EIT Law. Under the PRC tax laws effective prior to January 1, 2008, dividends paid to foreign investors by foreign-invested enterprises, such as dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. In 2007, the PRC government promulgated the new EIT Law and the relevant implementation rules, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the new EIT Law and its implementation rules, all domestic and foreign invested companies would be subject to a uniform enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% and dividends from PRC subsidiaries to their foreign shareholders will be subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 10%. However, under the new EIT Law, enterprises organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered PRC resident enterprises and therefore be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules of the PRC Income Tax Law, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management and control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of the enterprise. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, we would be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income; dividend income we receive from the PRC subsidiaries, however, would be exempt from PRC tax since such income is exempted under the new EIT Law to a PRC resident recipient. Dividends distributed to our investors by us, as a PRC resident, would be subject to the 10% PRC withholding tax. With the newly imposed 10% PRC dividend withholding tax, we will incur an incremental PRC tax cost when PRC profits are distributed to ultimate shareholders. In addition, if we become a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and receive income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the new EIT Law. 14 Table of Contents Foreign ownership of the real estate agency and brokerage business in China is restricted under the recent PRC regulation. This may limit our ability to establish our new PRC operating entities or to increase registered capital of existing entities in the future. On October 31, 2007, the PRC National Development and Reform Committee of China and the Ministry of Commerce of China jointly promulgated the amended Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, or the Catalogue, which came into effect on December 1, 2007. Pursuant to the Catalogue, real estate agency companies and real estate brokerage companies are classified within the restricted category of foreign investment industries. Our PRC legal counsel, Jin Mao PRC Lawyers, is of the opinion that only new real estate agency and brokerage businesses established after December 1, 2007 or existing real estate agency and brokerage businesses that require new approvals from the Ministry of Commerce or its local branch in order to increase their registered capital or conduct an equity transfer would be effected by the Catalogue. It may be difficult or take a long period of time for us to obtain the approval from the Ministry of Commerce or its local branch in order to establish our new PRC operating entities or to increase the registered capital of existing entities in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such approval from the Ministry of Commerce or its local branch. The national and regional economies in China and our prospects may be adversely affected by a recurrence of SARS or an outbreak of other epidemics, such as avian flu. Some regions in China, including the cities where we operate, are susceptible to epidemics such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. Past occurrences of epidemics, depending on their scale of occurrence, have caused different degrees of damage to the national and local economies in China. A recurrence of SARS or an outbreak of any other epidemics in China, such as the H5N1 avian flu, especially in the cities where we have operations, may result in material disruptions to real estate development in China and corresponding disruptions to our sales and marketing, which in turn will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the real estate industries; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other real estate services companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies; • potential litigation or administrative investigations; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ADSs or ordinary shares or sales of additional ADSs; and • general economic or political conditions in China. 15 Table of Contents In addition, the securities markets in the United States, China and elsewhere have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of March 31, 2008, we have 82,473,760 ordinary shares outstanding, 35,875,864 of which will be available for sale, upon the expiration of the applicable lock-up period, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The lock-up restrictions on directors, officers and selling shareholders in relation to the offering on January 31, 2008 will expire on April 30, 2008. Any or all of these shares can be released prior to expiration of the lock-up period at the discretion of the lead underwriters. To the extent shares are released before the expiration of the lock-up period and these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by Xin Zhou, our co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer. Xin Zhou beneficially owns approximately 32.74% of our outstanding shares, and Xin Zhou is currently and is expected to remain an affiliate within the meaning of the Securities Act. Accordingly, Mr. Zhou will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs have appointed the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs 16 Table of Contents generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and wholly own a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China through the subsidiaries in China wholly owned by this British Virgin Islands company. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a Cayman Islands or PRC court in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. We do not believe that we were a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2007. However, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC, and we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for either our taxable year ending December 31, 2008 or for any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The market value of our assets will depend in large part on the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in any offering. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which U.S. holders hold ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to U.S. holders. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 