ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY If we are unable to attract new customers and retain existing customers on a cost-effective basis, our business and results of operations will be affected adversely. To succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of customers on a cost-effective basis, many of whom have not previously used the types of services we offer. We rely on a variety of methods to attract new customers, such as paying providers of online services, search engines, directories and other websites to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our website, television and radio advertising and the inclusion of a link to our website in substantially all of our customers’ emails. In addition, we are committed to providing our customers with a high level of support. As a result, we believe many of our new customers are referred to us by existing customers. If we are unable to use any of our current marketing initiatives or the cost of such initiatives were to significantly increase or such initiatives or our efforts to satisfy our existing customers are not successful, we may not be able to attract new customers or retain existing customers on a cost-effective basis and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be affected adversely. Our business is substantially dependent on the market for email marketing services for small organizations. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from our email marketing product for small organizations, including small businesses, associations and non-profits. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our revenue from our email marketing product alone was approximately 90% of our total 16 Table of Contents revenue. Widespread acceptance of email marketing among small organizations will continue to be critical to our future growth and success. The overall market for email marketing and related services is relatively new and still evolving, and small organizations have generally been slower than larger organizations to adopt email marketing as part of their marketing mix. There is no certainty regarding how or whether this market will develop, or whether it will experience any significant contractions. Our ability to attract and retain customers will depend in part on our ability to make email marketing convenient, effective and affordable. If small organizations determine that email marketing does not sufficiently benefit them or utilize alternative or new electronic methods of communicating with their customers, existing customers may cancel their accounts and potential customers may decide not to adopt email marketing. In addition, many small organizations lack the technical expertise to develop and manage email marketing campaigns effectively. As technology advances, however, small organizations may establish the capability to manage their own email marketing and therefore may have no need for our email marketing product. If the market for email marketing services fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our services may decline and our revenue would suffer. In the event we are unable to retain existing customers or to grow our customer base by adding new customers, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our growth strategy is in part driven by our ability to retain our existing customers and grow our customer base by adding new customers. Customers cancel their accounts for many reasons, including economic concerns, business failure or a perception that they do not use our product effectively, the service is not a good value and that they can manage their email campaigns without our product. In some cases, we terminate an account because the customer fails to comply with our standard terms and conditions. As our customer base continues to grow, even if our customer retention rates remain the same on a percentage basis, the absolute number of customers we lose each month will increase. We must continually add new customers to replace customers whose accounts are cancelled or terminated, which may involve significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate. If too many of our customers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new customers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results would be adversely affected. Current economic conditions may further negatively affect the small business sector, which may cause our customers to terminate existing accounts with us or cause potential customers to fail to purchase our products, resulting in a decrease in our revenue and impairing our ability to operate profitably. Our products are designed specifically for small organizations, including small businesses, associations and non-profits. These organizations frequently have limited budgets and may be more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than their larger, more established counterparts. While the overall economy appears to be improving, we believe that small organizations continue to experience some amount of economic hardship. As a result, small organizations may choose to spend the limited funds that they have on items other than our products and may experience higher failure rates. Moreover, if small organizations experience economic distress, they may be unwilling or unable to expend resources on marketing, which would negatively affect the overall demand for our products, increase customer attrition and could cause our revenue to decline. There can be no assurance, therefore, that current economic conditions or worsening economic conditions, or a recurring recession, will not have a significant adverse impact on our operating and financial results. U.S. federal legislation imposes certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails, which could minimize the effectiveness of our products, particularly our email marketing product, and establishes financial penalties for non-compliance, which could increase the costs of our business. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM Act, establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, some states have passed laws regulating 17 Table of Contents commercial email practices that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act, particularly Utah and Michigan, which have enacted do-not-email registries listing minors who do not wish to receive unsolicited commercial email that markets certain covered content, such as adult or other harmful products. Some portions of these state laws may not be preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act. The ability of our customers’ constituents to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing product. Moreover, non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act carries significant financial penalties. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of commercial email, whether as a result of violations by our customers or if we were deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements, we could be required to pay penalties, which would adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business, and our reputation would suffer. We also may be required to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, which could impair our ability to attract and retain customers or could increase our operating costs. If the security of our customers’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be severely harmed, we may be exposed to liability and we may lose the ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Our system stores our customers’ proprietary email distribution lists, credit card information and other critical data. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, adverse regulatory action by federal and state governments, time-consuming and expensive litigation and other possible liabilities as well as negative publicity, which could severely damage our reputation. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our customers’ data, our relationships with our customers will be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, as we continue to grow our customer base and our brand becomes more widely known and recognized, we may become a more inviting target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems. Many states, including Massachusetts, have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, and we could lose customers and fail to acquire new customers. In addition, if we fail to maintain our compliance with the data protection policy standards adopted by the major credit card issuers, we could lose our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Any loss of our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option would harm our reputation and make our products less attractive to many small organizations by negatively impacting our customer experience and significantly increasing our administrative costs related to customer payment processing. Our existing general liability insurance may not cover any, or only a portion of any potential claims to which we are exposed or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all or any portion of liabilities that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage would increase our operating losses and reduce our net worth and working capital. As Internet commerce develops, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt new laws to regulate Internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to our products or our business. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our customers in the form of increased subscription fees. In addition, 18 Table of Contents federal, state and foreign governmental or regulatory agencies may decide to impose taxes on services provided over the Internet or via email. Such taxes could discourage the use of the Internet and email as a means of commercial marketing, which would adversely affect the viability of our products. The market in which we participate is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for our products is highly competitive and rapidly changing, and the barriers to entry are relatively low. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants to the market, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales, limit customer attrition and maintain our prices. Our principal email marketing competitors include providers of email marketing products for small to medium size businesses such as Vertical Response, Inc., iContact Corporation, AWeber Systems, Inc., Protus, a subsidiary of j2 Global Communications, Inc. (Campaigner®), Emma, Inc., The Rocket Science Group LLC (MailChimptm), Deluxe Corporation and VistaPrint N.V., as well as the in-house information technology capabilities of prospective customers. Competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our email marketing product to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. In addition, there are a number of other vendors that are focused on providing email marketing products for larger organizations, including Alterian Inc., ExactTarget, Inc., Responsys Inc., Silverpop Systems Inc., StrongMail Systems, Inc. and CheetahMail, Inc. (a subsidiary of Experian Group Limited). While we do not compete currently with vendors of email marketing products serving larger customers, we may face future competition from these providers if they determine that our target market presents an opportunity for them. Finally, in the future, our email marketing product may experience competition from Internet Service Providers, or ISPs, advertising and direct marketing agencies and other large established businesses, such as Microsoft Corporation, Google Inc. or Yahoo! Inc., possessing large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels. If these companies decide to develop, market or resell competitive email marketing products, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our operating results could be harmed. In addition, one or more of these entities could decide to offer a competitive email marketing product at no cost or low cost in order to generate revenue as part of a larger product offering. Our other products also face intense competition. Our event marketing product competes with offerings by Eventbrite, Inc., Evite, LLC (a wholly-owned, operating business of IAC/InterActiveCorp), RegOnline®, (a division of The Active Network, Inc.), 123Signup AMS, Inc., Pingg Corp., Acteva.com, Punchbowl Software, Inc., BonaSource Inc. (Wild Apricottm) and with r.s.v.p offerings from some of our email marketing competitors. Our survey product competes with similar offerings by Zoomerang (a division of Market Tools, Inc.) and Surveymonkey.com Corporation and with similar offerings from many other entities, including some of our email marketing competitors. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Our current and potential competitors may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have. In addition, these companies may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have and may be able to bundle email marketing, event marketing or survey products with other products that have already gained widespread market acceptance and offer them at no cost or low cost. These competitors may be better able to respond quickly to new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. If we are unable to compete with such companies, the demand for our products could substantially decline. 19 Table of Contents Any significant disruption in service on our website or in our computer systems, or in our customer support services, could reduce the attractiveness of our products and result in a loss of customers. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology and our underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of customer service, reputation and ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. In providing our services, we rely on third-party hosting facilities, bandwidth providers, ISPs and mobile networks. Our production system hardware and the disaster recovery operations for our production system hardware are co-located in third-party hosting facilities. These facilities do not guarantee that our customers’ access to our products will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations also depend on the ability of our third-party hosting facilities to protect their and our systems against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, air quality, temperature, humidity and other environmental concerns, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. In the event that our third-party hosting arrangements are terminated, or there is a lapse of service or damage to these facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities. In 2011, we plan to wind down our use of one hosting facility to transition to a new hosting facility. Despite the precautions we plan to take during this transition, any unsuccessful or delayed data transfers may impair the delivery of our service. In addition, our customer support services, which are located at our headquarters in Waltham, Massachusetts and at our sales and support office in Loveland, Colorado, would experience interruptions as a result of any disruption of electrical, phone or any other similar facility support services. Any interruptions or delays in access to our products or customer support, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters, security breaches or malicious actions, such as denial-of-service or similar attacks, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers and our reputation. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors could damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees’ attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause customers to cancel their accounts, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our production disaster recovery system is located at one of our third-party hosting facilities. Our corporate disaster recovery system is located at our headquarters in Waltham, Massachusetts. Neither system provides real time backup or has been tested under actual disaster conditions and neither system may have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage. In the event of a disaster in which our production system hardware and the disaster recovery operations for our production system hardware are irreparably damaged or destroyed, we would experience interruptions in access to our products. Moreover, our headquarters, our production system hardware and the disaster recovery operations for our production system hardware are currently all located within several miles of each other. As a result, any regional disaster could affect all three locations equally. Any or all of these events could cause our customers to lose access to our products, which will harm our business and results of operations. Our growth strategy requires us to expand our product offerings beyond email marketing and this expansion may not be successful. We have largely focused our business on providing our email marketing product for small organizations, but in the last few years we have expanded our service offerings. In 2007, we introduced our survey product and our add-on email archive service that enables our customers to archive their past email campaigns. In 2009, we launched our event marketing product. Through our acquisition of privately-held Nutshell Mail, Inc., or NutshellMail, which we completed in May 2010, we now provide a tool for small organizations to monitor and engage with social media networks. Our efforts to introduce new products beyond our email marketing product, including our event marketing and survey products and our social media marketing offerings, may not result in significant revenue growth, may divert management resources from our existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unproven business or product, which may harm our financial performance. 20 Table of Contents If the delivery of our customers’ emails is limited or blocked, the fees we may be able to charge for our email marketing product may not be accepted by the market and customers may cancel their accounts. ISPs can block emails from reaching their users. The implementation of new or more restrictive policies by ISPs may make it more difficult to deliver our customers’ emails. We continually improve our own technology and work closely with ISPs to maintain our deliverability rates. If ISPs materially limit or halt the delivery of our customers’ emails, or if we fail to deliver our customers’ emails in a manner compatible with ISPs’ email handling or authentication technologies or other policies, then the fees we charge for our email marketing product may not be accepted by the market, and customers may cancel their accounts. This, in turn, could harm our business and financial performance. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand in a cost-effective manner, we may lose market share and our revenue may decrease. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the Constant Contact brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to our goal of achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our industry increases. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and the effectiveness and affordability of our products for our target customer demographic. Historically, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expense, and it is likely that our future marketing efforts will require us to incur additional significant expenses. Such brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue and, even if they do, any revenue increases may not offset the expenses we incur to promote our brand. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand successfully, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may lose our existing customers to our competitors or be unable to attract new customers, which would cause our revenue to decrease. We depend on search engines to attract a significant percentage of our customers, and if those search engines change their listings or our relationship with them deteriorates or terminates, we may be unable to attract new customers, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many of our customers located our website by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google, Yahoo! and Bingtm. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Purchased listings can be purchased by advertisers in order to attract users to their websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract a significant percentage of the customers we serve to our website. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, this could result in fewer potential customers clicking through to our website, requiring us to resort to other costly resources to replace this traffic, which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and negatively impact our operating results, harming our business. If one or more search engines on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, or our revenue could decline and our business may suffer. The cost of purchased search listing advertising fluctuates and may increase as demand for these channels grows, and any such increases could negatively affect our financial results. The success of our business depends on the continued growth and acceptance of email as a communications tool and the related expansion and reliability of the Internet infrastructure. If consumers do not continue to use email or alternative communications tools gain popularity, demand for our email marketing products may decline. The future success of our business depends on the continued and widespread adoption of email as a primary means of communication. Security problems such as “viruses,” “worms” and other malicious programs or reliability issues arising from outages and damage to the Internet infrastructure could create the perception that email is not a safe and reliable means of communication, which would discourage businesses and consumers 21 Table of Contents from using email. Use of email by businesses and consumers also depends on the ability of ISPs to prevent unsolicited bulk email, or “spam,” from overwhelming consumers’ inboxes. In recent years, ISPs have developed new technologies to filter unwanted messages before they reach users’ inboxes. In response, spammers have employed more sophisticated techniques to reach consumers’ inboxes. Although companies in the anti-spam industry have started to address the techniques used by spammers, if security problems become widespread or frequent or if ISPs cannot effectively control spam, the use of email as a means of communication may decline as consumers find alternative ways to communicate. In addition, if alternative communications tools, such as those available on social networking sites, gain widespread acceptance, the need for email may lessen. Any decrease in the use of email would reduce demand for our email marketing product and harm our business. Various private spam blacklists have in the past interfered with, and may in the future interfere with, the effectiveness of our products and our ability to conduct business. We depend on email to market to and communicate with our customers, and our customers rely on email to communicate with their customers and members. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of email for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain email solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, and the websites, ISPs and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to those standards of conduct or practices for commercial email solicitations that the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, emails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. Some of our Internet protocol addresses currently are listed with one or more blacklisting entities and, in the future, our other Internet protocol addresses may also be listed with these and other blacklisting entities. There can be no guarantee that we will not continue to be blacklisted or that we will be able to successfully remove ourselves from those lists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our products and services and communicate with our customers and could undermine the effectiveness of our customers’ email marketing campaigns, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. Our customers’ use of our products and website to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications could damage our reputation, and we may face liability for unauthorized, inaccurate or fraudulent information distributed via our products. Our customers could use our products or website to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications, reproduce and distribute copyrighted and trademarked material without permission, or report inaccurate or fraudulent data or information. Any such use of our products could damage our reputation and we could face claims for damages, copyright or trademark infringement, defamation, negligence or fraud. Moreover, our customers’ promotion of their products and services through our products may not comply with federal, state and foreign laws. We cannot predict whether our role in facilitating these activities would expose us to liability under these laws. Even if claims asserted against us do not result in liability, we may incur substantial costs in investigating and defending such claims. If we are found liable for our customers’ activities, we could be required to pay fines or penalties, redesign business methods or otherwise expend resources to remedy any damages caused by such actions and to avoid future liability. Our business may be negatively impacted by seasonal trends. Sales of our products are impacted by seasonality. Typically, the fourth calendar quarter is our strongest quarter for customer growth because our prospective customers communicate more frequently with their customers and members during this time. Accordingly, we increase our sales and marketing activities at the end of the third quarter and during the fourth quarter. Our customer growth in the second and third quarters is typically slower as we move into the summer months, and in response, we moderate certain of our customer 22 Table of Contents acquisition activities, which may magnify the seasonal trends. If these seasonality trends change materially, our financial and operating results for any given quarter may be negatively impacted and may differ materially from results in prior quarterly periods. If we fail to enhance our existing products or develop new products, our products may become obsolete or less competitive and we could lose customers. If we are unable to enhance our existing products or develop new products that keep pace with rapid technological developments and meet our customers’ needs, our business will be harmed. Creating and designing such enhancements and new products entail significant technical and business risks and require substantial expenditures and lead-time, and there is no guarantee that such enhancements and new products will be completed in a timely fashion. Nor is there any guarantee that any new product offerings will gain acceptance among our customers or by the broader market. For example, our existing email marketing customers may not view any new product as complementary to our email product offerings and therefore decide not to purchase such product. If we cannot enhance our existing services or develop new products or if we are not successful in selling such enhancements and new products to our customers, we could lose customers or have difficulty attracting new customers, which would adversely impact our financial performance. Our relationships with our partners may be terminated or may not continue to be beneficial in generating new customers, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our customer base. We maintain a network of active partners, which include national small business service providers and local small business service providers such as web developers and marketing agencies, which refer customers to us through links on their websites and outbound promotion to their customers. If we are unable to maintain our contractual relationships with existing partners or establish new contractual relationships with potential partners, we may experience delays and increased costs in adding customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The number of customers we are able to add through these relationships is dependent on the marketing efforts of our partners over which we exercise very little control, and a significant decrease in the number of new customers generated through these relationships could adversely affect the size of our customer base and revenue. Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees whom we need to support our business. Competition for highly skilled engineering and marketing personnel is intense and we continue to face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel in certain areas of our business and in certain locations. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In particular, candidates making employment decisions, particularly in high-technology industries, often consider the value of any equity they may receive in connection with their employment. As a result, any significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain highly skilled engineering and marketing personnel. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring and training their replacements and the quality of our services and our ability to serve our customers could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. 23 Table of Contents Our anticipated growth could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our anticipated growth, we may not be able to implement our business plan successfully. We are currently experiencing a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial reporting infrastructure. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our senior management to manage this expected growth effectively. To do so, we believe we will need to continue to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. If our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and update our reporting procedures and systems. The expected addition of new employees and the capital investments that we anticipate will be necessary to manage our anticipated growth will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth successfully, we will be unable to execute our business plan. If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key technical and marketing personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, Gail F. Goodman, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, is critical to the management of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction. The loss of the services of Ms. Goodman or other executive officers or key personnel and the process to replace any of our key personnel would involve significant time and expense, may take longer than anticipated and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We rely on third-party computer hardware and software that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors or failures of our service and that requires us to closely monitor our usage to ensure that we remain in compliance with any applicable licensing requirements. We rely on computer hardware purchased and software licensed from third parties in order to offer our products, including hardware and software from such large vendors as International Business Machines Corporation, Dell Computer Corporation, 3PAR Inc., a division of the Hewlett-Packard Company, Oracle Corporation, Juniper Networks, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Ciena Corporation and EMC Corporation. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we lose the right to use any of this hardware or software or such hardware or software malfunctions, our customers could experience delays or be unable to access our services until we can obtain and integrate equivalent technology or repair the cause of the malfunctioning hardware or software. Any delays or failures associated with our services could upset our customers and harm our business. In addition, if we fail to remain in compliance with the licensing requirements related to any third-party computer hardware and software we use, we may be subject to unanticipated expenses, auditing costs, penalties and the loss of such hardware and software, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our unpatented proprietary information, processes and know-how and trade secrets, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. We rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how and trade secrets. Although we try to protect this information in part by executing confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties, such agreements may offer only limited protection and may be breached. Any unauthorized disclosure or dissemination of our proprietary technology, processes and know-how or our trade secrets, whether by breach of a confidentiality agreement or otherwise, may cause irreparable harm to our business, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise be 24 Table of Contents independently developed by our competitors or other third parties. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, processes and know-how or our trade secrets are disclosed, the value of our technology and services could be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source software closely, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by United States or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue sales of our products, or to release our software code under the terms of an open source license, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Given the nature of open source software, there is also a risk that third parties may assert copyright and other intellectual property infringement claims against us based on our use of certain open source software programs. The risks associated with intellectual property infringement claims are discussed immediately below. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or require us to obtain expensive licenses, and our business may be adversely affected. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters or other forms of communication. These claims, whether or not successful, could: • divert management’s attention; • result in costly and time-consuming litigation; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; • in the case of open source software-related claims, require us to release our software code under the terms of an open source license; or • require us to redesign our software and services to avoid infringement. As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, many of our agreements with our partners require us to indemnify them for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling on any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any third parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management time. Finally, if a third party successfully asserts a claim that our products infringe its proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable or at all and we may be required to pay significant monetary damages to such third party. Providing our products to customers outside the United States exposes us to risks inherent in international business. Customers in more than 160 countries and territories currently use our email marketing product, and we expect to expand our international operations in the future. Accordingly, we are subject to risks and challenges 25 Table of Contents that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States. The risks and challenges associated with providing our products to customers outside the United States include: • localization of our products, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including tax, email marketing, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; • foreign currency fluctuations; • different pricing environments; • difficulties in staffing and maintaining foreign operations; and • regional economic and political conditions. We have incurred net losses in the past and may incur net losses in the future. We have incurred net losses in the past and may incur net losses in the future. While we reported net income for 2010, we experienced net losses in each of the previous years and may experience net losses in the future. There is no guarantee we will be profitable in the future. In addition, we expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. If our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance could be adversely affected. If our revenue does not grow to offset these increased expenses, we may not be profitable in any future period. Our recent revenue growth may not be indicative of our future performance. In future periods, we may not have any revenue growth, or our revenue could decline. We are incurring significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management has been, and will continue to be, required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, and more recent legislation, including the Dodd — Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, require public companies to meet certain corporate governance standards. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, as a public company, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. We expect to continue to incur such expenses and expend such time in the future. If in the future we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock would likely decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Our ability to use net operating loss carry-forwards in the United States may be limited. As of December 31, 2010, we had net operating loss carry-forwards of $45.5 million for U.S. federal tax purposes and $6.9 million for state tax purposes. These loss carry-forwards expire at varying dates between 2011 and 2030. To the extent available, we intend to use these net operating loss carry-forwards to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations, if any. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. While we do not believe that our public stock offerings and prior private financings have resulted in ownership changes that 26 Table of Contents would limit our ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards, any subsequent ownership changes could result in such a limitation. To the extent our use of net operating loss carry-forwards is significantly limited, our income could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carry-forwards, which could have a negative effect on our financial results. Our quarterly results may fluctuate and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price could decline substantially. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, and if we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Some of the important factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: • our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ requirements; • general economic conditions; • changes in our pricing policies; • our ability to expand our business; • the effectiveness of our personnel; • new product and service introductions; • technical difficulties or interruptions in our services as a result of our actions or those of third parties; • the timing of additional investments in our hardware and software systems; • the seasonal trends in our business; • regulatory compliance costs; • costs associated with future acquisitions of technologies and businesses; and • extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments. Some of these factors are not within our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them may cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and may dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and growth. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to: • fund our operations; • respond to competitive pressures; • take advantage of strategic opportunities, including more rapid expansion of our business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; and • develop new products or enhancements to existing products. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. 27 Table of Contents We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our business, operating results or financial condition. In May 2010, we completed our acquisition of NutshellMail and, in February 2011, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Bantam Networks, LLC, or Bantam Networks. We have, from time to time, evaluated other acquisition opportunities and may pursue acquisition opportunities in the future. Our acquisitions of NutshellMail and the assets of Bantam Networks were our first significant acquisitions to date and, therefore, our ability as an organization to make and integrate them and any other significant acquisitions is unproven. Moreover, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • an inability to locate a suitable acquisition candidate or technology or acquire a desirable candidate or technology on favorable terms; • difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired business or acquired technology with our existing technology and products and in retaining and motivating key personnel from the business; • disruptions in our ongoing operations and the diversion of our management’s attention from their day-to-day responsibilities associated with operating our business; • increases in our expenses that adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition; • potential write-offs of acquired assets and increased amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired; and • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. In addition, our acquisition of NutshellMail, Bantam Networks and any other acquisitions we complete may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or such an acquisition may be viewed negatively by our customers, stockholders or the financial markets. RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • quarterly unique customer additions; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; • failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive products; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • additions or departures of key personnel; 28 Table of Contents • investors’ general perception of us; and • the total number of shares of our common stock that have been sold short In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Among other things, our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to impede or delay a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on our board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, the ability to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Any future dividend payments are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, 29 Table of Contents business opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 