D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information in this annual report, including the risks and uncertainties described below, before deciding to invest in our ADSs. The trading price of our ADSs could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry The PRC television broadcasting industry may not continue to digitalize as quickly as we expect, which would materially reduce our revenues and net income. Our future success depends upon the pace at which PRC television network operators continue switching from analog to digital transmission. In particular, various factors, including those beyond our control, may cause PRC television network operators to convert from analog to digital transmission at a slower pace. Moreover, although the PRC government has strongly encouraged cable television network operators to digitalize their networks and has set a target of 2015 for all analog channels to be switched off (except for those required to be retained during the transition period), it may relax or cancel the 2015 target. The pace of digitalization may also be slowed down as a result of uncertainties in the change of industrial policies. In addition, PRC television viewers may fail to subscribe to digital television services in sufficient numbers to support wide-scale digitalization. PRC television network operators may also decide that the commercial benefits of digitalization are outweighed by the costs or other commercial or policy considerations. If any of these or other factors were to cause the pace of digitalization to proceed significantly more slowly than we anticipate, our sales of CA systems, in particular smart cards, would suffer significantly, and our revenues and net income would be materially reduced. 5 Table of Contents Changes in the regulatory environment of, and government policies towards, the PRC television broadcasting industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Strong PRC government support has been a significant driver of the PRC television broadcasting industry’s transition from analog to digital transmission. Although the PRC government has set a target of 2015 for all cable television networks to switch to digital transmissions, terminating all analog transmissions except for up to six channels that will continue in service for the benefit of those unable to afford digital television, we cannot assure you that the government will not change or adjust its digitalization policies at any time, including canceling or relaxing the target date for completing such digitalization. If the digitalization process in the PRC were to be slowed down or otherwise adversely affected by any government action or inaction, we may not be able to develop a broader customer base or attract new business from existing customers, and our growth and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the television broadcasting industry in the PRC is highly regulated. Government regulations with respect to television broadcasting content, the amount and content of advertising, the pricing of pay-television subscriptions, the role of private-sector investment and the role of foreign investment significantly influence the business strategies and operating results of our customers. For example, the PRC State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television (formerly, the PRC General Administration of Press and Publication and the PRC State Administration of Radio, Film and Television), or the SAPPRFT, issues licenses without which our customers cannot operate, and may withdraw such licenses for violation of its regulations. Among other things, the SAPPRFT must approve the creation of new premium content channels and has the power to order television network operators to stop airing programs or advertising that it considers illegal or inappropriate. Any adverse government actions against television network operators could in turn cause us to lose existing or potential customers. In addition, many of our customers are directly or indirectly owned by the central PRC government or provincial or local governments. As a result, their business strategies and capital expenditure budgets are significantly influenced by government policies at various levels. Any change in the business strategies of our customers that leads to a reduction in the funds available to purchase our CA systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the ongoing consolidation of the PRC cable television broadcasting industry could, among other things, substantially increase the bargaining power of the consolidated network operators over us and require us to reduce the prices of our CA systems and other products and services, which could, in turn, materially reduce our revenues and profitability. If significant numbers of television viewers in the PRC are unwilling to pay for digital television or related value-added services, our business and profits will suffer. The substantial majority of our revenues are derived from digital television network operators who purchase our head-end CA systems software and smart cards to insert in the set-top boxes of their subscribers. As a result, we are substantially dependent upon the television network operators’ ability to sell digital television subscriptions to viewers. In addition, the success of our efforts to generate future revenues by offering value-added services to television viewers ultimately depends on whether viewers are willing to pay for such value-added services. We cannot assure you that television network operators will be successful in promoting digital television or value-added services. In particular, television viewers in the PRC are accustomed to receiving television programming and content for free or at a very low price. Even viewers who are accustomed to paying for cable television subscriptions have historically paid very low rates and may not be willing to pay significantly higher rates for digital television services, or additional fees for value-added services. If digital television network operators are unable to develop unique and compelling content to differentiate their product offerings from the content provided through analog transmissions or offer value-added services that meet viewers’ needs at an affordable price, these operators may find it difficult to persuade viewers to accept the pay-television model or pay more for digital television or value-added services than viewers have historically paid for analog television. In that event, our customers’ digital subscriber numbers may not grow and we may be unable to sustain our current level of revenues, net income and/or growth. 6 Table of Contents If large numbers of television network operators who have already installed our CA system head-end software do not purchase sufficient quantities of our smart cards, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Television network operators who purchase and install our CA systems head-end software generally purchase our smart cards in batches over a period from several months to several years as they roll out digital services to their subscribers in stages. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from the sale of smart cards to customers who are engaged in such service roll-outs. However, certain television network operators have in the past installed our CA systems head-end software and subsequently failed to purchase sufficient quantities of our smart cards. Factors that may cause a television network operator to suspend or halt its digitalization using our products include, but are not limited to, changes in such television network operator’s management priorities or financial position, and a decision by such television network operator to carry out digitalization using the CA systems of a competitor. In January 2010, the PRC government stepped up its policy to encourage convergence of television broadcasting, telecommunications and Internet services. Although this policy may lead to acceleration of the digitalization of cable networks as the cable operators prepare themselves for potential competition from telecommunications operators, it may also have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, as a response to that policy, and as an important measure to strengthen the competitiveness of the cable television industry as a whole, the SAPPRFT has increased its efforts to consolidate the cable television industry. As a result, some provincial cable operators have completed consolidation of and gained increasing influence over the municipal cable operators, including the latter’s purchase and investment decisions. If the provincial cable operators, who may be CA customers of our competitors or otherwise prefer our competitors’ products, direct the municipal cable operators to suspend or cancel their orders for our smart cards or purchase smart cards from our competitors, our business could suffer. Furthermore, the SAPPRFT released a unified CA systems standard in March 2012, which requires a unified CA system that is compatible with different terminals developed by different vendors to be used. Although this standard has not yet been implemented, upon such implementation, it would allow television network operators greater flexibility in selecting vendors of CA systems and related upgrades, including those of our competitors. If large numbers of television network operators who have already installed our CA systems head-end software fail to purchase commercial quantities of our smart cards, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We derive substantially all of our revenues from customers who are installing new CA systems, and if we are unable to continue attracting new customers to install our CA systems or persuade existing customers to purchase our system upgrades or value-added applications, our revenues, profitability and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. CA systems vendors in more mature digital television markets, such as the United States and Europe, derive revenues not only from the purchase of new CA systems by television network operators who are switching from analog to digital transmissions, but also from the purchase of new and replacement smart cards, system upgrades and new value-added services by existing customers. In the PRC, however, cable television network operators are still in the process of purchasing CA systems and introducing digital content and services to their subscribers. To date, none of our customers have made a follow-on purchase for system upgrades or card replacements. As a result, the success of our business depends primarily on our ability to attract a continuing stream of customers who are switching from analog to digital transmission. As the digitalization process in the PRC continues to progress in light of the targeted completion in the year 2015, the number of cable television network operators who have not switched from analog to digital transmission, who are the prospective customers of our CA systems, has been decreasing significantly. If we are unable to continue attracting sufficient numbers of such customers, or to develop a significant additional source of recurring revenues, our revenues and profitability may be materially reduced and our prospects may suffer. 7 Table of Contents Our business will suffer if we do not respond effectively to technological or commercial changes in our industry. Our business and the market in which we operate are characterized by rapid commercial and technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent product enhancements. As digital broadcasting becomes more popular in the PRC, television network operators are likely to seek more sophisticated CA technology that offers them greater reliability, flexibility and functionality in delivering protected content or value-added services to viewers. As methods of distributing information and entertainment evolve, CA technology may also need to evolve to provide content protection for distribution platforms other than television. Our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market products and services that respond to technological changes and evolving market demand or industry standards in a timely and cost-effective manner. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the CA systems industry and related industries. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and our significant expenditures on research and development may not yield corresponding benefits. If we fail to develop and introduce products and services that effectively respond to technical changes and evolving market demand or industry standards and compete effectively with products and services offered by our competitors, our sales may be significantly reduced and our revenues and profitability will suffer. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues in any single period. If one customer defers or cancels its orders or chooses our competitors’ products or services, our revenues and net income could decline significantly. The revenues generated by our top five customers for a particular year as a percentage of our total revenues declined from 25.1% in 2009 to 20.6% in 2013. However, we currently still derive, and we expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, although the particular customers may vary from period to period. As digital cable television systems are still at the developing stage in the PRC, the largest shipments of smart cards tend to be to operators who are launching new digital transmission systems and need to purchase in bulk for their established networks. If a customer significantly reduces the volume of its purchases from us, defers or cancels orders or terminates its relationship with us, our revenues and net income could decline significantly and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business may suffer if cable television network operators, who currently comprise our primary customer base, fail to compete effectively with existing and emerging alternative platforms for delivering television programs, including terrestrial networks, Internet Protocol television, mobile television and satellite broadcasting networks. Our existing customers are mainly cable television network operators in the PRC, which compete with traditional terrestrial television networks for the same pool of viewers. As technologies continue to develop, other means of delivering information and entertainment to television viewers are also continuing to evolve. For example, some telecommunications companies in the PRC are seeking to compete with terrestrial broadcasters and cable television network operators by offering Internet Protocol television, or IPTV, which allows telecommunications companies to stream television programs through telephone lines. The SAPPRFT has issued seven IPTV licenses, and seven Internet TV licenses for integration platforms, and it may issue significantly more IPTV and Internet TV licenses in the future. The SAPPRFT also issued a broadcast license in 2006 to the PRC’s first direct satellite broadcast company, which began operation in 2008. A television operator has also been offering mobile television services since 2009. We may not be as successful in selling our CA systems to the operators of IPTV, or terrestrial, satellite or mobile television networks as we have been in selling to cable television network operators. To the extent that the terrestrial television networks, telecommunications companies or satellite television network operators compete successfully with cable television network operators for viewers, the ability of our existing cable customer base to attract and retain subscribers may be severely disrupted. As a result, demand for additional smart cards could falter and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed if the security of our customers’ networks is compromised due to a failure of our CA systems or a security breach of the software or hardware supplied by other vendors. We face risks relating to a failure of our CA systems to block unauthorized access to the television networks of our customers. Our CA systems use a combination of signal scrambling and encryption to prevent unauthorized viewing of our customers’ television programs. An important component of our CA systems is the smart cards we provide for our customers’ individual subscribers. Unauthorized viewing and use of content could be accomplished by counterfeiting our smart cards, stealing our system’s authorization messages or security codes, or in any other way thwarting our CA systems’ security features. Any significant security breach could require us to develop and implement solutions that could be costly or time-consuming, or to replace an operator’s smart cards at our own expense. For example, pursuant to our contracts with buyers of our CA systems, if we were unable to remedy such security breach with system modifications, we could be obligated to replace the cards free of charge if the breach occurs within the first year (or in some cases, within the first two or three years) after the sale. Even though we have not experienced any significant counterfeiting or other security breach, we cannot assure you that our current assumptions regarding the security of our CA systems are reasonable. We could be obligated to incur a significant portion of the cost of replacing our smart cards in future years if any significant counterfeiting or security breach occurs. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Products and Services—CA Systems.” The cost of smart card replacement and the damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our CA systems, the secured transmission of digital television programming also relies on certain other software and hardware components, such as set-top boxes supplied by other vendors, used by our customers’ digital television networks. A security breach of any of these other software and hardware components could result in unauthorized access to the television networks of our customers. For example, in November 2007, it was discovered that an individual located in the city of Daqing in Heilongjiang Province had provided shared access to the local digital television network to over 100 other persons without authorization by hacking into certain set-top boxes used on that network, which do not have advanced security features due to cost considerations. We believe we are not liable for such security breach of software or hardware components that are supplied by other vendors under the terms of our contractual arrangements. However, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could still be materially and adversely affected if these security breaches result in the affected television network operators having difficulty recruiting new subscribers or retaining existing subscribers. Furthermore, as our CA systems are used on the affected networks, our reputation could also be severely harmed by being associated with such security breaches on our customers’ networks. We generally do not have long-term contracts with suppliers of computer chips or the companies that manufacture our smart cards. If any of our computer chip suppliers or smart-card manufacturers is unable to fulfill our orders in time or at all, we may be unable to deliver smart cards to our customers. As a general matter, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers. We purchase substantially all of the computer chips that are used in our smart cards from two suppliers, STMicroelectronics, or STM, and Infineon Technologies AG, or Infineon. In addition, we have arrangements with a number of smart-card manufacturers, including China Electronics Smart Card Co., Ltd., or China Electronics, the China Sciences Group and Axalto Smart Card Technology Co., to embed the computer chips into plastic cards. We typically place purchase orders with our computer chip and smart card suppliers as needed to meet our customers’ demand. Our computer chip and smart card suppliers are generally not under any contractual obligation to accept our purchase orders or fulfill them within our desired time frame. However, we currently maintain a one-year contract with each of China Electronics and the China Sciences Group that requires them to fulfill our orders in accordance with an agreed schedule. Any significant delay or failure by any of our suppliers or manufacturers to fulfill our orders for computer chips or smart cards could force us to obtain computer chips or smart cards from alternative sources at higher cost, which would reduce our operating margins, or could prevent us from delivering smart cards in the required quantities to our customers on a timely basis. Any such failure by us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and ability to retain customers, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may also subject us to claims for compensation from our customers. 9 Table of Contents We face intense competition, which could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. The market for digital television CA systems and software applications is intensely competitive. Several of the world’s leading developers and producers of CA systems, including Irdeto Access B.V. and NDS Limited, operate in the PRC market. We also compete with domestic CA systems vendors, including Sumavision Technologies Co., Ltd. and DVN Holdings Ltd. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources than we do, and may respond more quickly than we could to technological or commercial changes in our industry. In addition, some competitors offer their CA systems at a lower price or with a longer credit term than we do. We may need to reduce our prices to compete with them, which may lead to reduced margins or loss of market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively in the market for digital television CA systems and software applications in the PRC. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Competition.” We depend upon key personnel, including our senior executives and technical and engineering staff, and our business and prospects would greatly suffer if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily on the continued service of our key executives. In particular, we rely on the expertise and experience of Jianhua Zhu, chairman of our board of directors and our chief executive officer, Dr. Zengxiang Lu, member of our board of directors, and Dong Li, our president and chief marketing officer, in our business operations and technology development efforts, and on their relationships with the regulatory authorities, our customers, our suppliers, our employees and our operating company, N-S Digital TV. If any of them becomes unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, or if they join a competitor or form a competing company, we may not be able to replace them easily, our business may be significantly disrupted and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We do not currently maintain key-man insurance for any of our key personnel. Furthermore, our future success depends heavily upon our ability to recruit and retain experienced technical and engineering staff. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel from other companies in our industry as well as from businesses outside our industry, and we may not be successful in retaining technical and engineering employees and recruiting new ones. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our attempts to diversify our business and expand our revenues by providing new solutions and products may not be successful and may prove costly. We have been pursuing strategies to expand and diversify our revenues, including developing and commercializing new solutions and products, such as value-added digital television services, cloud computing technology-based digital video delivery solutions and advanced digital television terminals. To this end, we established Beijing Novel-Super Media Investment Co., Ltd., or N-S Media Investment, Beijing Cyber Cloud Co., Ltd., or Cyber Cloud, and Beijing Joysee Technology Co., Ltd., or Joysee, over the past several years. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company.” However, we have no prior experience cooperating with television network operators or other third parties in providing new solutions and products, and may not be successful in doing so. In addition, our attempts to develop this new business model may be time-consuming and may distract our management from developing our existing lines of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face difficulties implementing our acquisition strategy, including identifying suitable opportunities and integrating acquired businesses and assets with our existing operations. As part of our business strategy, we intend to enhance our capabilities by acquiring other companies, businesses or technologies that complement our existing business or enhance our product portfolio and proprietary technology. However, our ability to implement our acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, our ability to compete effectively to attract and reach agreement with acquisition candidates on commercially reasonable terms and the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions, as well as our ability to obtain any required shareholder or government approvals. In addition, any particular acquisition may not produce the intended benefits. For example, we may not be successful in integrating acquisitions with our existing operations and personnel, and the process of integration may cause unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant attention of our management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. If we make future acquisitions, we may issue new shares that dilute the interests of our other shareholders, expend cash, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or create additional expenses related to the impairment of goodwill or the amortization of other intangible assets with estimable useful lives. 10 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed if a defect in our software, technology or services interferes with, or causes any failure in, our customers’ systems. Our software and technology are integrated into the television transmission infrastructure of our customers. Accordingly, a defect, error or performance problem with our software or technology could interfere with, or cause a critical component of, one or more of our customers’ systems to fail for a period of time. Any negligence or error of our employees in the course of their performance of system integration, upgrade or maintenance services for our customers may also cause malfunctioning, suspension or failure of our customers’ systems. Occurrence of such incidents could result in claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of whether we are responsible for such failure. Any claim brought against us could be expensive to defend and require the expenditure of a significant amount of resources, regardless of whether we prevail. In addition, we do not currently maintain any product or business liability insurance. Although we have not experienced any such material interference or failure in the past, our potential exposure to this risk may increase as sales of our products and customer demand for our upgrade or maintenance services grow. Any future problem in this area could cause severe customer service problems and reputational damage. N-S Digital TV may be deemed not to be in full compliance with certain legal regulatory requirements relating to the production, sale and export of encryption products, and the relevant PRC government authorities could require N-S Digital TV to cease such activities and impose administrative penalties including fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The applicable PRC regulations generally require a company that engages in the production and sale of encryption products to obtain two licenses, one for the production of encryption products and the other for the sale and distribution of encryption products, and the implementation rules for issuing these two licenses were promulgated in December 2005. Under these regulations and implementation rules, a company generally is only allowed to produce and/or sell encryption products that use algorithms designated by the encryption authority and such products shall also be certified by the encryption authority. In addition, these regulations and implementation rules also require a company to obtain prior approval from the encryption authority for the export of encryption products. The encryption authority initially designated permitted algorithms for CA systems in 2007 and a final and official designation remains pending. Like many other vendors of CA systems in the PRC, N-S Digital TV has been producing and selling CA systems using algorithms other than those initially designated by the encryption authority. We understand that, in practice, the PRC government has allowed a transition period, of a duration yet to be determined at its sole discretion, for vendors of CA systems to comply with this requirement to use the algorithms to be finally and officially designated by the government. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview— Regulation—Regulation of Encryption Industry.” N-S Digital TV has engaged in the production and sale of encryption products since its establishment in May 2004, but it did not obtain the license for the production of encryption products until June 2006 and the license for the sale of encryption products until September 2008. In December 2008 and February 2009, certain CA system products we developed by using the algorithms designated by the encryption authority were certified by the encryption authority. However, we have not decided when N-S Digital TV will produce and sell those products using the designated algorithms, and various factors, in addition to the permissible transition period for adoption, will affect this decision, including whether products using algorithms designated by the encryption authority will be generally accepted by the cable television industry (including CA system vendors and cable television operators). Furthermore, N-S Digital TV has engaged in the export of encryption products since 2010, but it did not obtain the prior approval from the encryption authority for such export. If N-S Digital TV fails to adopt the algorithms designated by the encryption authority for any of CA systems products it produces and sells by the end of the transition period or at any time during the transition period at the request of the government, it may be required to discontinue the production and sale of its non-compliant CA systems. If the relevant PRC government authorities deem N-S Digital TV’s production of encryption products prior to June 2006, sale of encryption products prior to September 2008 or export of encryption products since 2010 to be in violation of the applicable regulations, they may impose sanctions against N-S Digital TV. These sanctions may include confiscation of income from non-compliant activities, fines of up to three times the amount of income from non-compliant activities and revocation of the licenses already issued. Imposition of such sanctions may result in material disruptions to our business operations, damage to our reputation and significant financial losses. 11 Table of Contents Enforcement of certain PRC regulatory requirements regarding the use of encryption products may prevent prospective customers from purchasing our CA systems. The applicable PRC regulations require users to use only encryption products that are certified by the encryption authority. The CA systems we currently produce and sell have not been certified by the encryption authority because we have not adopted the government-designated algorithms for such CA systems. We believe that because the PRC government provides for a transition period, which will be for a duration to be determined at its sole discretion, for us to adopt the algorithms to be finally and officially designated by the government, it is unlikely that the government will enforce the above-mentioned regulatory requirements with respect to the use or purchase of our CA systems during that transition period. In December 2008 and February 2009, certain CA system products we developed by using the algorithms designated by the encryption authority were certified by the encryption authority. However, as stated above, we have not decided when N-S Digital TV will produce and sell those CA system products certified by the encryption authority and various factors, in addition to the permissible transition period for adoption, will affect this decision. If we have not obtained the certification for the CA systems that we produce and sell upon the expiration of the transition period or at an earlier time the PRC government may otherwise require, enforcement of the above-mentioned regulatory requirements could prevent our prospective customers from purchasing our non-compliant CA systems, which could materially reduce our revenues and net income. In addition, even if we produce and sell products certified by the PRC encryption authority, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully market and sell such products. We may incur development costs in order to use the algorithms designated by the PRC encryption authority for CA systems. A company generally is only allowed to produce and/or sell encryption products that have adopted the algorithms designated by the PRC encryption authority. As the encryption authority did not designate any algorithms for CA systems until 2007, we have been using algorithms in our CA systems other than those designated by the encryption authority. If we are required by the government authorities to instead use the algorithms designated by the encryption authority in our CA systems, we may incur costs to develop new products adopting such algorithms. Development costs, the amount of which remains unclear, may cause our profit margin to decline significantly as well as materially reduce our profitability. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could harm our business and competitive position. We are required to continually improve our products and services to stay competitive in the marketplace, and as a result intellectual property is critical to our continued success. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights and the obligations we have to third parties from whom we license intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, these afford only limited protection and policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. In addition, intellectual property rights historically have not been enforced in the PRC to the same extent as in the United States, and intellectual property theft presents a serious risk in doing business in the PRC. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties that, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay significant damage awards. Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of any claims relating to our technology patents would involve complex technological, legal and factual questions and analyses and, as a result, the outcome of such claims would be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense of such claims would be both costly and time-consuming, and could significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management and technical personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, pay ongoing royalties or redesign our products, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. In addition, we could face disruptions to our business and damage to our reputation, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products internationally, which could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. In 2012 and 2013, we derived 6.4% and 12.3%, respectively, of our sales from outside the PRC. The international marketing, distribution and sale of our products expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors that are knowledgeable about, and are able to function effectively in, overseas markets; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; • difficulty and cost relating to compliance with different commercial and legal requirements in the overseas markets; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses. We rely on a single facility for most of our business operations. Any destruction of, or significant disruption to, this facility could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations. Most of our business operations, including the encoding of our smart cards, which is an essential part of the smart card manufacturing process, all our research and development activities and our corporate headquarters are concentrated within a single facility that we lease in Beijing, PRC. As we do not maintain back-up facilities, we rely on this facility for the continued operation of our business. In addition, we currently do not maintain any business disruption or similar insurance coverage. A major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction of, or significant disruption to, the facility could severely affect our ability to complete sales or conduct other normal business operations, which would materially reduce our revenues and net income. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which could materially and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly in the future. Our quarterly revenues may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, our quarterly revenues substantially depend upon the timing of smart card orders placed by our customers. A significant portion of our quarterly revenues has generally reflected orders from a limited number of large customers for our CA systems. Our cost of revenues and operating expenses may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a result, you may not be able to rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In addition, our actual quarterly results may differ from market expectations, which may cause the price of our ADSs to decline significantly. 13 Table of Contents Failure to manage our growth or develop appropriate internal organizational structures, internal control environment and risk monitoring and management systems in line with our growth could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our business and operations have expanded since our inception. Significant management resources must be expended to develop and implement appropriate structures for internal organization and information flow, an effective internal control environment and risk monitoring and management systems in line with our growth, as well as to hire and integrate qualified employees into our organization. We cannot assure you that our existing internal control and risk monitoring and management systems would continue to be adequate. If we fail to appropriately develop and implement structures for internal organization and information flow, an effective internal control environment and a risk monitoring and management system, we may not be able to identify unfavorable business trends, administrative oversights or other risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and in a timely manner report our financial results or prevent fraud would suffer. As a result, investor confidence and the trading price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely impacted. We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013, the end of the period covered by this annual report, and our independent registered public accounting firm opined that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting of the same period. However, we may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, in which case we and the independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm, or the relevant regulators, may disagree. If such independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control or the level at which our control is documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently than we do, then it may not be able to issue an unqualified opinion. In addition, our reporting obligations as a public company may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Moreover, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as these standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could harm our operating results and lead to a significant decline in the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which we list, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. We may need additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it. In order for us to grow, remain competitive, develop new products and services, expand our customer base and carry out acquisitions, we may seek to obtain additional capital in the future through selling additional equity or debt securities or obtaining a credit facility. Our ability to obtain additional capital in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • conditions in the United States and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; 14 Table of Contents • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of digital television components and related companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in the PRC and elsewhere. We may be unable to obtain additional capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, the additional issuances of equity securities may result in significant dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of debt would result in increased interest expense and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. We were classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in 2013, which resulted in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs and may result in additional adverse United States Federal income tax consequences to such holders in subsequent years. Based on analyses of the value of our assets as of December 31, 2013, we were a PFIC during the taxable year 2013 for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have substantial passive assets in the form of cash and cash equivalents, among others, and can provide no assurance that we will not continue to be classified as a PFIC for the taxable year 2014 or future taxable years, as PFIC status is tested each year and depends on our assets and income in such year. Our PFIC status for the current taxable year 2014 will not be determinable until the close of the taxable year ending December 31, 2014. We will be classified as a PFIC in any future taxable year if either: (1) the average percentage value of our gross assets during the taxable year that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the value of our total gross assets; or (2) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. If we hold substantial cash, cash equivalents and other passive assets, as we currently do, a significant decrease in the market price of our outstanding shares would increase the risk of us becoming a PFIC. In any taxable year in which we are classified as a PFIC, and you are a U.S. holder of our ADSs or shares, unless you make a mark-to-market election, you will generally be taxed at higher ordinary income rates, rather than lower capital gain rates, if you dispose of our ADSs or shares for a gain, even if we are not a PFIC in the year of disposition. In addition, a portion of the tax imposed on your gain would be increased by an interest charge if you dispose of our ADSs or shares in a year after the first year in which we were treated as a PFIC that you hold our ADSs or shares. Similar treatment would apply if you receive distributions from us that are characterized as “excess distributions.” Moreover, you will not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate with respect to any dividend distribution that you may receive from us in a year in which we are a PFIC or in the following year. Finally, you will also be subject to special United States federal income tax reporting requirements. For more information on the United States federal income tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, including the consequences of making a mark to market selection, see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—PFIC Rules.” You should consult your tax advisor regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your investment in our ADSs or shares. Our bank accounts are not insured or similarly protected against loss. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 90.7% of our bank deposits were placed with 2 commercial banks in the PRC. Unlike certain other jurisdictions, applicable PRC laws do not require that banks provide deposit insurance or similar protections to depositors in the PRC. As a result, our bank accounts are not insured or similarly protected. If a commercial bank with which we have placed our cash deposits becomes insolvent, or if we are otherwise unable to withdraw funds, we may be unable to recover the cash on deposit with that bank. As a result, our liquidity and cash flows, as well as financial condition and results of operations, could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government determines that N-S Digital TV is a vendor of non-PRC CA systems by virtue of the agreements that establish the structure for operating our business, we could face difficulty selling our CA systems in the PRC. SAPPRFT policy requires any cable television network operator who uses a non-PRC CA system to install a parallel PRC CA system. Under this policy, vendors of non-PRC CA systems may sell only to cable network operators who have already installed a PRC CA system or who are willing to purchase a parallel PRC CA system. This may result in a competitive disadvantage for vendors of non-PRC CA systems relative to vendors of PRC CA systems. Such policy does not expressly indicate whether the CA systems produced by a foreign-invested company incorporated in the PRC, such as our subsidiary Beijing Super TV Co., Ltd., or Super TV, fall into the category of non-PRC CA systems. In light of this ambiguity, in order to avoid our CA systems being deemed non-PRC CA systems, we have established N-S Digital TV, which is wholly owned by PRC persons, to produce and sell our CA systems. We do not have any equity interest in N-S Digital TV and instead enjoy the economic benefits of, and have substantive control over, N-S Digital TV through contractual arrangements with N-S Digital TV and its shareholders. N-S Digital TV also holds the licenses and approvals that are essential to our business, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues from N-S Digital TV. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the above-described PRC government policy and relevant PRC laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, the PRC government may determine that N-S Digital TV is a vendor of non-PRC CA systems by virtue of our contractual arrangements with N-S Digital TV and its shareholders. If N-S Digital TV is deemed to be a vendor of non-PRC CA systems by the PRC government, cable network operators may cancel their orders for our CA systems to avoid being required to install a parallel PRC CA system, and we may also lose potential customers who are not willing, or have no plan, to install a parallel PRC CA system for economic or other reasons. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The agreements that establish the structure for operating our business may result in the relevant PRC government regulators revoking or refusing to renew N-S Digital TV’s licenses for the production and sale of commercial encryption products, or refusing to issue any other license required to engage in an encryption-related business. Our CA systems business uses encryption technology and thus is required by the relevant PRC laws, rules and regulations to obtain licenses to produce and sell commercial encryption products. Although foreign-invested enterprises incorporated in the PRC, such as our subsidiary, Super TV, are not expressly prohibited from conducting a business that uses encryption technology, foreign-invested enterprises may have difficulty obtaining the necessary license due to the PRC encryption authority’s generally restrictive approach towards foreign participation in the PRC encryption industry. N-S Digital TV, which is wholly owned by PRC persons and through which we conduct our CA systems business, has obtained licenses to produce and sell commercial encryption products as required for our business. Our contractual arrangements with N-S Digital TV and its shareholders provide us with the economic benefits of, and substantive control over, N-S Digital TV. If the PRC encryption authority determines that our control over, or relationship with, N-S Digital TV through those contractual arrangements is contrary to their generally restrictive approach towards foreign participation in the PRC encryption industry, we cannot assure you that the PRC encryption authority will not reconsider N-S Digital TV’s eligibility to hold the licenses to produce and sell commercial encryption products. The PRC encryption authority may revoke, or refuse to renew, N-S Digital TV’s licenses to produce and sell commercial encryption products, or refuse to grant any other encryption-related license that may be required for our business in the future. If that were to happen, we might have to discontinue all or a substantial portion of our business pending the reissuance, extension or issuance of the required license. In addition, we might have to restructure our operation in order to have such licenses reissued, extended or issued. Such restructuring may result in a loss or reduction of our control over, or the economic benefits we enjoy from, N-S Digital TV under existing contractual arrangements. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our business and operations could be significantly disrupted, and we could be subject to sanctions, if the contractual arrangements between us and our consolidated variable interest entity, N-S Digital TV, which we depend on for the production and sales of our CA systems, are found to be in violation of applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. We conduct substantially all of our CA systems business through N-S Digital TV, a PRC company that we control through contractual arrangements. For a description of such contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” As the applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations are evolving and subject to differing interpretations, there exist substantial uncertainties regarding the validity and enforceability of the contractual arrangements between us and N-S Digital TV and its shareholders. We have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, Han Kun, that the ownership structures of our operating subsidiary in China and our consolidated variable interest entity comply with existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. Moreover, Han Kun is of the opinion that each of the agreements that establish the contractual arrangements is valid, legally binding and enforceable and does not violate applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. We cannot assure you that the relevant PRC regulatory authorities will not ultimately determine that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. In addition, in late 2011, various media sources reported that the research division of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, had prepared a report for the State Council of the PRC proposing to regulate the use of the variable interest entity structure, such as the structure used by us, in the context of foreign investment in the PRC and overseas listings of PRC companies. It is unclear, however, whether the CSRC has officially submitted such a report to the State Council, what specific content such report contains and whether and when any further action will be taken by the State Council, the CSRC, the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, or any other PRC government authority regarding the use of the variable interest entity structure. If we or our operating company were found to be in violation of PRC laws, rules or regulations, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in imposing sanctions, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • confiscating income; • revoking business licenses or operating licenses; • requiring us to revise our ownership structure or restructure our operations; • requiring the discontinuation of businesses; • restricting or requiring us to discontinue related party transactions among our PRC subsidiaries, on the one hand, and N-S Digital TV and its subsidiaries, on the other hand; • limiting our business expansion in China; and/or • imposing additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruptions to our business, as well as materially reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flows. In addition, if the imposition of any of these or similar sanctions causes us to lose the power to effectively control N-S Digital TV and its subsidiaries or the ability to receive substantially all the economic benefits of these entities, we may not be able to consolidate the financial results of N-S Digital TV and its subsidiaries into our financial statements under U.S. GAAP. 17 Table of Contents Our contractual arrangements with our operating company, N-S Digital TV, and its shareholders may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership and may be difficult to enforce. In order for our CA systems not to be deemed by the PRC government as non-PRC CA systems, which may result in a competitive disadvantage for us in the PRC market, we have established N-S Digital TV, which is wholly owned by PRC persons, to produce and sell our CA systems in the PRC. As a result, we generate a significant portion of our revenues through N-S Digital TV. We do not have any equity interest in N-S Digital TV and instead enjoy the economic benefits of, and have substantive control over, N-S Digital TV through contractual arrangements with N-S Digital TV and its shareholders. N-S Digital TV also holds the licenses and approvals that are essential to our business. For a description of such contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our operations as direct ownership would be. In particular, N-S Digital TV could fail to perform or make payments as required under these contractual arrangements, and we would have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce these arrangements, which may not be effective. See “—Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China—Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws, rules and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” In addition, a PRC court or arbitration tribunal may refuse to enforce the contractual arrangements on the grounds that they are designed to circumvent PRC foreign investment restrictions and therefore against PRC public policy. If we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these arrangements, our business and operations could be severely disrupted, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as damage our reputation, and we may not be able to consolidate the financial results of N-S Digital TV and its subsidiaries into our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The shareholders or directors of N-S Digital TV may have conflicts of interest with us. We do not have any equity interest in N-S Digital TV and instead enjoy the economic benefits of, and have substantive control over, N-S Digital TV through contractual arrangements with N-S Digital TV and its shareholders. Conflicts of interests may arise between us and the shareholders of N-S Digital TV, who are currently our employees and some of whom are currently our shareholders. In addition, two directors of N-S Digital TV are also directors of our company, and conflicts may arise between the duties they owe to N-S Digital TV and the duties they owe to us. We cannot assure you that if any such conflicts arise, any or all of the shareholders or directors of N-S Digital TV, as the case may be, will act in the best interests of our company or that such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. We have no specific policies or procedures for resolving any such conflicts that may arise. In addition, these shareholders or directors may breach, or cause N-S Digital TV to breach or refuse to renew, the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to effectively control N-S Digital TV and receive economic benefits from it. If we cannot satisfactorily resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the shareholders or directors of N-S Digital TV, we may have to resort to legal proceedings, which may involve substantial uncertainty and result in disruptions to our business and operations. Contractual arrangements we have entered into between Super TV and N-S Digital TV may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and any finding that we or N-S Digital TV owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between Super TV, our wholly-owned subsidiary in the PRC, and N-S Digital TV do not represent an arm’s-length price and consequently adjust N-S Digital TV’s income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction of expense deductions recorded by N-S Digital TV, which could in turn increase its tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties. 18 Table of Contents Certain of our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. As of March 31, 2014, our three largest shareholders beneficially owned a total of approximately 41.9% of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, they will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these shareholders, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. These shareholders may cause us to take actions that are opposed by other shareholders as the interests of these shareholders may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions” for more information regarding the share ownership of our officers, directors and significant shareholders. Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China Our operations may be materially and adversely affected by changes in the economic, political and social conditions of the PRC. Substantially all of our non-cash assets are located in, and substantially all of our revenue is sourced from, the PRC. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in the PRC generally and by continued economic growth in the PRC as a whole. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the extent of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth over the past three decades, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. We cannot predict the possible impact of any future economic policies of the PRC government on our business and operations. The PRC government has implemented various measures since 2011 to control inflation, such as tightening bank lending policies and increasing interest rates. In addition, China’s 2013 annual gross domestic product growth rate was 7.7%, the same as in 2012 and the slowest since 1999. Continued implementation of these or similar measures, or a variety of other factors, may cause a continued slowdown in the PRC economy, which, in turn, could significantly reduce business activities in the PRC, including a slowing-down or decline in investment in cable television networks, which in turn may result in a reduction of demand for our products and services and thus materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws, rules and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which legal decisions have limited value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign or private-sector investment in the PRC. Our PRC operating subsidiary, Super TV, is a foreign-invested enterprise and is subject to laws, rules and regulations applicable to foreign investment in the PRC as well as laws, rules and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. N-S Digital TV is a privately owned company and is subject to various PRC laws, rules and regulations that are generally applicable to companies in the PRC. These laws, rules and regulations change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into, and materially impair our business and operations. 19 Table of Contents The approval of the CSRC might be required in connection with our initial public offering under certain PRC regulation; failure to obtain this approval, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation as well as the trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the MOFCOM, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or the SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, or the SAT, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, the CSRC and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rules, among other things, include provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle formed for the purpose of an overseas listing of securities in a PRC company obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such special purpose vehicle’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. We completed the initial listing and trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, on October 11, 2007. We did not seek CSRC approval in connection with our initial public offering. Our PRC counsel, Han Kun, advised us that, based on their understanding of the current PRC laws, regulations and rules, because we completed our restructuring in 2004 in connection with an equity investment in our company by a private equity investor more than two years prior to the promulgation of the M&A Rules, we were not and are not required by the M&A Rules to apply to the CSRC for approval of our initial public offering, unless we are clearly required to do so by any rules promulgated in the future. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulation of Overseas Listings.” However, the application of the M&A Rules remains unclear. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that the CSRC’s approval was required for our initial public offering, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. The SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-Trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or SAFE Notice 75, and its implementation rules and guidances, that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations may apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents in connection with our prior and any future offshore acquisitions. The SAFE regulations required registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies prior to the implementation of the SAFE Notice 75 on November 1, 2005. In addition, under the SAFE regulations, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update his previously filed registration with respect to such offshore company to reflect any material change. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration or update the previously filed registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. 20 Table of Contents We have notified holders of our ordinary shares whom we know are PRC residents to register with the local branches of the SAFE and update their registration as required by the relevant SAFE regulations described above. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any registrations or approvals or update their previously filed registrations as required under these regulations or other related legislation. If any existing shareholder transfers any of our shares or ADSs to another PRC resident, it is unclear whether such new shareholder is also required to make the SAFE registration. Furthermore, as the interpretations and practice in implementing these SAFE regulations have been constantly evolving, it is unclear how these regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to obtain any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities or obtaining of shareholders loans, and prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business as well as our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are domestic individuals fail to comply with the PRC regulations relating to employee share options granted by overseas-listed companies to domestic individuals. In February 2012, the SAFE promulgated the Notice relating to Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas-Listed Companies, or SAFE Notice 7, which superseded the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas-Listed Companies, or SAFE Notice 78, promulgated by the SAFE in March 2007. SAFE Notice 7 is applicable to directors, supervisors, senior management personnel and other employees of an overseas-listed company incorporated in the PRC, PRC subsidiaries or branches of an overseas-listed company, and any PRC entities which are directly or indirectly controlled by an overseas-listed company, or, collectively, Domestic Companies, including PRC citizens (including Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan) and foreign citizens who have resided in the PRC for one year or longer, or, collectively, Domestic Individuals. Under SAFE Notice 7, Domestic Individuals who participate in a stock incentive plan of an overseas-listed company are required, through a Domestic Company or a PRC entity designated by a Domestic Company, or the Domestic Agent, to register with the SAFE or its authorized local counterparts and complete certain other procedures. As we are an overseas-listed company, we and our employees who are Domestic Individuals and have been granted share options or any other share-related rights and benefits under our stock incentive plans are subject to SAFE Notice 7. We have registered for us and on behalf of our employees with the relevant local SAFE branch in 2008 for our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan pursuant to prior SAFE Notice 78, and we have also registered for us and on behalf of our employees who are Domestic Individuals for our 2008 Stock Incentive Plan, 2010 Stock Incentive Plan and intend to register for us and on behalf of our employees for our 2012 Stock Incentive Plan pursuant to SAFE Notice 7. However, there exist significant uncertainties in practice with respect to the interpretation and implementation of SAFE Notice 7 and we cannot assure you that we or our employees who are Domestic Individuals will be in full compliance with SAFE Notice 7. If the SAFE or other PRC government authorities determine that we or our employees who are Domestic Individuals fail to comply with the provisions of SAFE Notice 7, we or they may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Stock Incentive Plans.” We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could materially restrict our ability to conduct our business. We, as a holding company, may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary, Super TV, for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If Super TV incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payments of dividends by Super TV only out of its retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. 21 Table of Contents Under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, Super TV is required to set aside 10% of its after-tax profits each year to fund a statutory reserve until the accumulated amount of such reserve has exceeded 50% of its registered capital. This reserve is not distributable as cash dividends to equity owners. As a result of these PRC laws, rules and regulations, Super TV is restricted in its ability to transfer a portion of its net assets to us in the form of dividends. Limitations on the ability of Super TV to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to effectively utilize our revenues as well as the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain debt or equity financing from financial institutions or investors outside the PRC, including us. A significant portion of our operating revenues have been denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, Super TV may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including purchase of imported computer chips and payment of dividends to us, without the approval of the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future for current account transactions. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to purchase computer chips from suppliers outside of the PRC or fund our business activities outside of the PRC denominated in foreign currencies or pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. In addition, foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from, or registration with, the SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. In particular, any loans to Super TV are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example: • loans by us to Super TV, a foreign-invested enterprise, cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart; and • loans by us to N-S Digital TV, which is a domestic PRC entity, and its subsidiaries must be approved by the relevant government authorities and must also be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart. This could affect the ability of Super TV to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. As a significant portion of our operating revenues are denominated in Renminbi and the net proceeds from our initial public offering are denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Renminbi will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds and our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. Since July 2005, the Renminbi is no longer pegged solely to the U.S. dollar. Instead, the Renminbi is reported to be pegged against a basket of currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.3% each day. This permitted floating range was increased to 0.5% in May 2007 and was further increased to 2.0% in March 2014. The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of dividends, if any, payable on our ordinary shares in U.S. dollar terms and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. In addition, since a significant portion of our operating revenues are denominated in Renminbi while approximately 29.6% of our cost of revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate could also impact our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Very limited hedging transactions are available in the PRC to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any other hedging transactions. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The PRC government has provided various incentives to Super TV and N-S Digital TV. These incentives include reduced enterprise income tax rates, value-added tax refunds and tax holidays. For example, as high-and-new technology enterprises, each of Super TV and N-S Digital TV was entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 15% (against the standard income tax rate of 25%) in each of 2011, 2012 and 2013. In addition, Super TV was designated as a “key software enterprise” for the tax years from 2011 to 2014 by the relevant PRC government authorities and, as a result, was entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 10% in each of those years. Furthermore, for certain software-related products that are qualified as “software products” by PRC tax authorities, we received tax refunds which effectively reduce the applicable value-added tax rate from 17% to 3%. Super TV and N-S Digital TV must meet a number of financial and non-financial criteria in order to continue to qualify for the above tax incentives. For example, in order to be able to enjoy the preferential income tax rate of 15%, Super TV and N-S Digital TV must be qualified as “high-and-new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State” under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the 2008 EIT Law, which took effect on January 1, 2008. In addition, in order to continue to enjoy the preferential income tax rate of 10%, Super TV must reapply for and obtain the designation as a “key software enterprise” biennially. Moreover, the PRC government could determine at any time to eliminate or reduce the scale of such preferential tax policies. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Taxes and Incentives—PRC.” Any increase in Super TV’s or N-S Digital TV’s enterprise income tax rate or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently enjoyed by Super TV or N-S Digital TV could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be subject to PRC income tax on our global income, or dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary may be subject to PRC withholding tax, depending on whether we are recognized as a resident enterprise in the PRC. Pursuant to the 2008 EIT Law and Enterprise Income Tax Law Implementation Rules, or the Implementation Rules, enacted by the State Council on December 6, 2007 and which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established under the laws of a foreign country or region whose “de facto management body” is located within the PRC territory is considered a resident enterprise and will generally be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. According to the Implementation Rules, “de facto management body” refers to a managing body that exercises, in substance, overall management and control over the production and business, personnel, accounting and assets of an enterprise. The SAT issued the Notice on Issues Relating to Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Enterprises as PRC Resident Enterprises by Applying the “De Facto Management Body” Test, or the SAT Notice 82, on April 22, 2009, which was amended in January 2014. The SAT Notice 82 provides for certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore enterprise is located in the PRC. In addition, on July 27, 2011, the SAT issued the Administrative Measures of Enterprise Income Tax of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Resident Enterprises (Trial), or SAT Bulletin 45, which became effective on September 1, 2011, to provide guidance on the implementation of SAT Notice 82. SAT Bulletin 45 clarifies certain issues relating to: (i) the determination procedures of PRC resident enterprise status and (ii) tax registration and other related procedures for PRC resident enterprises. SAT Bulletin 45 also provides that if an offshore PRC resident enterprise presents a copy of the PRC tax resident determination certificate issued by the competent tax authorities to a payer of PRC-sourced dividends, interest, royalties and other income, such payer shall not withhold income tax on these payments to the offshore PRC resident enterprise. Although each of the SAT Notice 82 and the SAT Bulletin 45 provides that it only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those controlled by PRC individuals, like our company, it is generally believed that the determining criteria set forth therein very likely reflect the SAT’s general position as to how the “de facto management body” test should be applied to determine the tax residency of all offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. With reference to the criteria set forth in the SAT Notice 82, we believe that we are not a PRC resident enterprise. However, if we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, although dividends we receive from our PRC operating subsidiary would be exempt from PRC withholding tax, we would be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our global income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In such case, our profitability and cash flow would be materially reduced as a result of our global income being taxed under the 2008 EIT Law. 23 Table of Contents If we are considered as a non-resident enterprise under the 2008 EIT Law, we will not be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our global income. In such case, however, dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary will be subject to a PRC withholding tax, the standard rate of which is 10% and may be reduced by an applicable tax treaty, under the 2008 EIT Law. According to the Arrangement for Avoidance of Double Taxation on Income and Prevention of Tax Evasion entered into between the PRC and Hong Kong in August 2006, as amended, dividends paid by a PRC foreign-invested enterprise to its shareholder in Hong Kong are generally subject to a 5% PRC withholding tax, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions and requirements, compared to the standard 10% PRC withholding tax under the 2008 EIT Law. However, on October 27, 2009, the SAT issued the Notice on How to Recognize “Beneficial Owners” under Relevant Tax Treaties, or the SAT Notice 601, which provides that only the enterprises with active operations may be recognized as “beneficial owners” under relevant tax treaties that are entitled to enjoy the corresponding tax benefits. The SAT Notice 601 further provides that those enterprises that are established solely for the purposes of benefiting from favorable tax treatment under the relevant tax treaties should not be recognized as “beneficial owners” and therefore may not enjoy favorable tax treatment. On June 29, 2012, the SAT issued the Announcement of the SAT Regarding Recognition of Beneficial Owners under Tax Treaties, or the SAT Announcement 30, which provides that a comprehensive analysis based on all the factors listed in the SAT Notice 601 should be made to determine the “beneficial owner” status. We indirectly hold the 100% interest in our PRC subsidiary, Super TV, through Golden Benefit Technology Limited, or Golden Benefit, a wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated in Hong Kong. As a result, to the extent we are considered as a non-resident enterprise and Golden Benefit is not recognized as a qualified beneficial owner under the relevant tax treaty, dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary will be subject to the standard rate of 10%. For example, as a result of our decision in 2012 to distribute the undistributed retained earnings of our PRC subsidiary without a set schedule, we accrued a US$4.8 million deferred tax liability related to withholding tax on the undistributed earnings of Super TV generated after January 1, 2008. In 2013, we accrued an additional deferred tax liability of US$3.4 million related to withholding tax on the undistributed earnings of Super TV generated after January 1, 2008, resulting in a deferred tax liability balance of US$8.2 million as of December 31, 2013. Such withholding tax increased our tax burden and reduced the amount of cash available to our company. Dividends payable by us to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders, and gains on the sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs, may be subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws, which may materially reduce the value of your investment. The 2008 EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, provide that an income tax rate of 10% (which may be reduced by the relevant tax treaties between PRC and other jurisdictions) will generally be applicable to dividends payable to non-resident enterprises, which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or whose establishment or place of business in the PRC has no connection with the dividends, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC and paid out of distributable profits accumulated on or after January 1, 2008. In addition, any gain realized on the transfer of shares by non-resident enterprises is also subject to the 10% income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC, unless the applicable tax treaties provide for an alternative withholding arrangement. Furthermore, dividends payable to non-PRC individual investors and any gain realized on the transfer of our ADSs or ordinary shares by such non-PRC individual investors may be subject to PRC income tax at a rate of 20% (which may be reduced or exempted by the relevant tax treaties between PRC and other jurisdictions). 24 Table of Contents If we are considered as a PRC resident enterprise, our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders, and any gain realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and would as a result be subject to PRC tax. If dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders are subject to PRC tax, or if non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders are required to pay PRC tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially reduced. The M&A Rules and other recent PRC laws, rules and regulations have established more complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. The M&A Rules established certain procedures and requirements that could make mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors in China more time-consuming and complex. In addition, PRC national security review rules, which became effective on September 1, 2011, subject acquisitions by foreign investors of PRC companies that conduct business in military related or certain other industries that are crucial to national security to a security review before the consummation of any such acquisition. Furthermore, the PRC Antitrust Law, which became effective on August 1, 2008, requires, among other things, that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor acquires control of a PRC domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds set forth in the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings issued by the State Council on August 3, 2008 are triggered. We may grow our business in part by pursuing potential strategic acquisitions that are complementary to our business and operations. Complying with the requirements of these PRC laws, rules and regulations to complete such acquisitions could be time-consuming, and any required approval procedures, including obtaining approvals from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market position. Natural disasters and health hazards in the PRC may severely disrupt our business and operations and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, certain parts of China have experienced devastating natural disasters and health hazards causing tens of thousands of deaths and widespread injuries. In addition, parts of Mainland China, in particular its southern, central and eastern regions, have in the past experienced what was reportedly the most severe winter weather in the country in half a century, which resulted in significant and extensive damage to factories, power lines, homes, automobiles, crops and other properties, blackouts, transportation and communications disruptions and other losses in the affected areas. Moreover, certain countries and regions, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu, as well as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, and the outbreak of influenza (H7N9). We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that any future natural disasters and health and public security hazards may have on our business. Any future natural disasters and health and public security hazards may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, and may generally disrupt our operations. Furthermore, such natural disasters and health and public security hazards may severely restrict the level of business activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, any natural disasters or health hazards in China may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The implementation of the PRC Labor Contract Law may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The PRC Labor Contract Law, as amended, and its implementation rules formalize workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions and provide for specific standards and procedure for the termination of an employment contract. In addition, the Labor Contract Law requires the payment of a statutory severance pay upon the termination of an employment contract in most cases, including in cases of the expiration of a fixed-term employment contract. As there has been little guidance as to how the Labor Contract Law will be interpreted and enforced by the relevant PRC authorities, there remains substantial uncertainty as to its potential impact on our business and results of operations. The implementation of the Labor Contract Law may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses and labor service expenses. In the event that we decide to significantly reduce the number of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law may also limit our ability to effect these changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in the PRC, is not inspected by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports on Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as external auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and as a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. As our independent registered public accounting firm is located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in the PRC, is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other independent registered public accounting firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside the PRC have identified deficiencies in the audit procedures and quality control procedures of those firms, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in the PRC prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. And the inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms in the PRC makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our external auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to external auditors outside the PRC that are subject to PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of the PCAOB inspections. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the PRC affiliates of the ‘‘big four’’ accounting firms (including our auditors) and also against Dahua (the former BDO affiliate in China), which we refer to hereinafter as the Rule 102(e) proceedings. The Rule 102(e) proceedings relate to the inability of these firms to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position to produce documents directly to the SEC due to restrictions under applicable PRC law and specific directives issued by the CSRC. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our independent registered public accounting firm or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In an Initial Decision dated January 22, 2014 (Initial Decision Release No. 533; Administrative Proceeding File Nos. 3-14872, 3-15116), which we refer to hereinafter as the Initial Decision, the SEC administrative law judge held that the PRC affiliates of the “big four” accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the SEC for six months. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a Petition for Review of the Initial Decision and pending that review the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. The SEC Commissioners will review the Initial Decision, determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, determine the appropriate remedy to be placed on these audit firms. Once such an order was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the U.S. federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal, although there can be no assurance given regarding the eventual outcome. 26 Table of Contents Depending upon the final outcome, we may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of our operations, which could result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting of our securities from the New York Stock Exchange. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against the audit firms may cause uncertainty that could result in significant decrease in the market price of our ADSs. Risks Relating to the ADSs The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to you. The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since October 5, 2007, the closing prices of our ADSs on the NYSE have ranged from US$1.68 to US$51.08 per ADS and the last reported sale price on April 21, 2014 was US$2.84. Our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to various factors beyond our control. The financial markets in general, and the market prices for many other PRC companies listed on stock exchanges in the United States in particular, have experienced extreme volatility. These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. In particular, factors such as variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments and cooperation arrangements or acquisitions could cause the market price for our ADSs to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and trading price of our ADSs. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert the attention of senior management, and, if adversely determined, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their trading price and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our ADSs. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our ADSs. As of March 31, 2014, we had 59,250,373 ordinary shares outstanding (excluding 272,719 ordinary shares that were issued and held for our account in preparation for exercise of share options by option holders under our employee stock incentive plans), including 38,621,299 ordinary shares represented by 38,621,299 ADSs (excluding the 272,719 ADSs that were held for our account in preparation for exercise of share options by option holders under our employee stock incentive plans). All ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares outstanding have been available for sale, subject to volume and other restrictions that may be applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. In addition, we have filed registration statements on Form S-8 to register the ordinary shares to be issued to the share option holders under our employee stock incentive plans. The ordinary shares to be received by such share option holders who are not affiliated with us may be resold freely to the public market. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. Your interest in our ADSs will be diluted as a result of our stock incentive plans or other share option grants. As of March 31, 2014, options to purchase an aggregate of 5,029,089 ordinary shares had been granted and were outstanding under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, the 2008 Stock Incentive Plan, the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan and the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan. For a description of these plans, see “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—B. Compensation of Directors and Senior Officers—Share Options.” The exercise of those options would result in a reduction in the percentage of ownership of the holders of ordinary shares and of ADSs, and therefore would result in a dilution in the earnings per ordinary share and per ADS. 27 Table of Contents You may face difficulties in protecting your interest, and your ability to protect your rights through the United States federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Second Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Cayman Islands Companies Act and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors and actions by minority shareholders are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as established and may differ from provisions under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face different considerations in protecting their interests in actions against our management or directors than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of management and members of the board of directors under Cayman Islands law, such as in the areas of fiduciary duties, are different from those applicable to a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. For example, the Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws; and • in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us based on the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws that are penal in nature. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management or members of our board of directors than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Your voting rights as a holder of our ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. You may exercise your voting rights with respect to the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from you in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary for our ADSs will endeavor to vote your underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our Second Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is 15 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but you may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. 28 Table of Contents The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for our ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or • voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares that your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. 29 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 