Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risk factors should be read in connection with the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and US12OF’s financial statements and the related notes. Risks Associated With Investing Directly or Indirectly in Crude Oil Investing in oil interests subjects US12OF to the risks of the crude oil industry and this could result in large fluctuations in the price of US12OF’s units. US12OF is subject to the risks and hazards of the crude oil industry because it invests in oil interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the crude oil industry may cause the price of crude oil to widely fluctuate. If the changes in percentage terms of US12OF’s units accurately track the changes in percentage terms of the average price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts or the spot price of crude oil, then the price of its units may also fluctuate. The exploration and production of crude oil are uncertain processes with many risks. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells for crude oil is often uncertain, and a number of factors can delay or prevent drilling operations or production of crude oil, including: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or repairs; · fires or other accidents; · adverse weather conditions; · pipeline ruptures, spills or other supply disruptions; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment. Crude oil transmission, distribution, gathering, and processing activities involve numerous risks that may affect the price of crude oil. There are a variety of hazards inherent in crude oil transmission, distribution, gathering, and processing, such as leaks, explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and flooding), pipeline failure, abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of crude oil, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, and other hazards which could affect the price of crude oil. To the extent these hazards limit the supply or delivery of crude oil, crude oil prices will increase. 56 Changes in the political climate could have negative consequences for crude oil prices. Tensions with Iran, the world’s fourth largest oil exporter, could put oil exports in jeopardy. Other global concerns include civil unrest and sabotage affecting the flow of oil from Nigeria, a large oil exporter. Meanwhile, friction continues between the governments of the United States and Venezuela, a major exporter of oil to the United States. Additionally, a series of production cuts by members of OPEC followed by a refusal to subsequently increase oil production have tightened world oil markets. Fluctuations in the reserve capacity of crude oil could impact future prices. In the past, a supply disruption in one area of the world was softened by the ability of major oil-producing nations such as Saudi Arabia to increase output to make up the difference. Now, much of that spare reserve capacity has been absorbed by increased demand. The current global economic downturn, however, has led to a decrease in the demand for oil that lasted through 2009 and a corresponding increase in spare capacities. According to the United States Government’s Energy Information Administration, global oil demand is expected to rise by 1.47 million barrels a day in 2011, to a total global consumption of 86.65 million barrels per day, up from 85.18 million barrels per day in 2010. The price of US12OF’s units may be influenced by factors such as the short-term supply and demand for crude oil and the short-term supply and demand for US12OF’s units. This may cause the units to trade at a price that is above or below US12OF’s NAV per unit. Accordingly, changes in the price of units may substantially vary from the changes in the spot price of light, sweet crude oil. If this variation occurs, then investors may not be able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. While it is expected that the trading prices of the units will fluctuate in accordance with changes in US12OF’s NAV, the prices of units may also be influenced by other factors, including the short-term supply and demand for crude oil and the units. There is no guarantee that the units will not trade at appreciable discounts from, and/or premiums to, US12OF’s NAV. This could cause changes in the price of the units to substantially vary from changes in the spot price of light, sweet crude oil. This may be harmful to investors because if changes in the price of units vary substantially from changes in the spot price of light, sweet crude oil, then investors may not be able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge the risk of losses in their crude oil-related transactions or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. Changes in US12OF’s NAV may not correlate with changes in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. If this were to occur, investors may not be able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. USCF endeavors to invest US12OF’s assets as fully as possible in short-term Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests so that the changes in percentage terms of the NAV closely correlate with the changes in percentage terms in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. However, changes in US12OF’s NAV may not correlate with the changes in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts for several reasons as set forth below: · US12OF (i) may not be able to buy/sell the exact amount of Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests to have a perfect correlation with NAV; (ii) may not always be able to buy and sell Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests at the market price; (iii) may not experience a perfect correlation between the spot price of light, sweet crude oil and the underlying investments in Oil Futures Contracts, Other Oil Interests and Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents; and (iv) is required to pay fees, including brokerage fees and the management fee, which will have an effect on the correlation. · Short-term supply and demand for light, sweet crude oil may cause the changes in the market price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts to vary from the changes in US12OF’s NAV if US12OF has fully invested in Oil Futures Contracts that do not reflect such supply and demand and it is unable to replace such contracts with Oil Futures Contracts that do reflect such supply and demand. In addition, there are also technical differences between the two markets, e.g., one is a physical market while the other is a futures market traded on exchanges, that may cause variations between the spot price of crude oil and the prices of related futures contracts. 57 · US12OF sells and buys only as many Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests that it can to get the changes in percentage terms of the NAV as close as possible to the changes in percentage terms in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. The remainder of its assets are invested in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents and are used to satisfy initial margin and additional margin requirements, if any, and to otherwise support its investments in oil interests. Investments in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents, both directly and as margin, provide rates of return that vary from changes in the value of the spot price of light, sweet crude oil and the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. · In addition, because US12OF incurs certain expenses in connection with its investment activities, and holds most of its assets in more liquid short-term securities for margin and other liquidity purposes and for redemptions that may be necessary on an ongoing basis, USCF is generally not able to fully invest US12OF’s assets in Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests and there cannot be perfect correlation between changes in US12OF’s NAV and changes in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. · As US12OF grows, there may be more or less correlation. For example, if US12OF only has enough money to buy three Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts and it needs to buy four contracts to track the price of oil then the correlation will be lower, but if it buys 20,000 Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts and it needs to buy 20,001 contracts then the correlation will be higher. At certain asset levels, US12OF may be limited in its ability to purchase the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts or other Oil Futures Contracts due to accountability levels imposed by the relevant exchanges. To the extent that US12OF invests in these other Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests, the correlation with the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts may be lower. If US12OF is required to invest in other Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests that are less correlated with the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts, US12OF would likely invest in over-the-counter contracts to increase the level of correlation of US12OF’s assets. Over-the-counter contracts entail certain risks described below under “Over-the-Counter Contract Risk.” · US12OF will invest in equal amounts of each of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. Certain months of these futures contracts may have less liquidity and availability than other months of these future contracts. The inability to purchase and hold the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts in equal amounts may cause less correlation between the units’ NAV and the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. · US12OF may not be able to buy the exact number of Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests to have a perfect correlation with the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts if the purchase price of Oil Futures Contracts required to be fully invested in such contracts is higher than the proceeds received for the sale of a Creation Basket on the day the basket was sold. In such case, US12OF could not invest the entire proceeds from the purchase of the Creation Basket in such futures contracts (for example, assume US12OF receives $4,000,000 for the sale of a Creation Basket and assume that the average of the prices of the Oil Futures Contracts for light, sweet crude oil that reflects the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts is $46.00, then US12OF could only invest in Oil Futures Contracts with an aggregate value of $3,956,600). US12OF would be required to invest a percentage of the proceeds in cash, Treasuries or other liquid securities to be deposited as margin with the futures commission merchant through which the contracts were purchased. The remainder of the purchase price for the Creation Basket would remain invested in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents or other liquid securities as determined by USCF from time to time based on factors such as potential calls for margin or anticipated redemptions. If the trading market for Oil Futures Contracts is suspended or closed, US12OF may not be able to purchase these investments at the last reported price for such investments. · US12OF may make use of “mini” contracts as a way of investing a dollar amount in contracts that may more closely match the dollar amount of net assets of the fund. However, even the use of mini contracts does not completely eliminate the risk that US12OF will not be able to buy or sell the exact number of Oil Futures Contracts necessary. In addition, there is a risk that because of the size and relative liquidity of such contracts when compared to standard size Oil Futures Contracts such as the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts, the price of a smaller contract for a particular month may not equate to the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract for the same month, which could cause the change in US12OF’s per unit price and NAV to vary from changes in the average price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. 58 If changes in US12OF’s NAV do not correlate with changes in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts, then investing in US12OF may not be an effective way to hedge against oil-related losses or indirectly invest in oil. The Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts may not correlate with the spot price of light, sweet crude oil and this could cause changes in the price of the units to substantially vary from the changes in the spot price of light, sweet crude oil. If this were to occur, then investors may not be able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. When using the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts as a strategy to track the spot price of light, sweet crude oil, at best the correlation between changes in prices of such oil interests and the spot price of crude oil can be only approximate. The degree of imperfection of correlation depends upon circumstances such as variations in the speculative oil market, supply of and demand for such oil interests and technical influences in oil futures trading. If there is a weak correlation between the oil interests and the spot price of light, sweet crude oil, then the price of units may not accurately track the spot price of light, sweet crude oil and investors may not be able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge the risk of losses in their oil-related transactions or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. US12OF may experience a loss if it is required to sell Treasuries at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired. The value of Treasuries generally moves inversely with movements in interest rates. If US12OF is required to sell Treasuries at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired, US12OF will experience a loss. This loss may adversely impact the price of the units and may decrease the correlation between the price of the units, the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests, and the spot price of light, sweet crude oil. Certain of US12OF’s investments could be illiquid which could cause large losses to investors at any time or from time to time. At any given time, US12OF may own 12 different monthly crude oil contracts which have differing expiration schedules. The amount of liquidity in the crude oil futures market for each of those months will vary. In some cases certain of those months may have relatively small amounts of open interest and daily trading volume. As a result, US12OF may not always be able to liquidate its positions in its investments at the desired price. It is difficult to execute a trade at a specific price when there is a relatively small volume of buy and sell orders in a market. A market disruption, such as a foreign government taking political actions that disrupt the market in its currency, its crude oil production or exports, or in another major export, can also make it difficult to liquidate a position. Alternatively, limits imposed by futures exchanges or other regulatory organizations, such as accountability levels, position limits and daily price fluctuation limits, may contribute to a lack of liquidity with respect to some commodity interests. Unexpected market illiquidity may cause major losses to investors at any time or from time to time. In addition, US12OF has not and does not intend at this time to establish a credit facility, which would provide an additional source of liquidity and instead relies only on the Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents that it holds. The anticipated large value of the positions in Oil Futures Contracts that USCF will acquire or enter into for US12OF increases the risk of illiquidity. The Other Oil Interests that US12OF invests in, such as negotiated over-the-counter contracts, may have a greater likelihood of being illiquid since they are contracts between two parties that take into account not only market risk, but also the relative credit, tax, and settlement risks under such contracts. Such contracts also have limited transferability that results from such risks and from the contract’s express limitations. 59 Because both Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests may be illiquid, US12OF’s oil interests may be more difficult to liquidate at favorable prices in periods of illiquid markets and losses may be incurred during the period in which positions are being liquidated. If the nature of hedgers and speculators in futures markets has shifted such that crude oil purchasers are the predominant hedgers in the market, US12OF might have to reinvest at higher futures prices or choose Other Oil Interests. The changing nature of the hedgers and speculators in the crude oil market influences whether futures prices are above or below the expected future spot price. In order to induce speculators to take the corresponding long side of the same futures contract, crude oil producers must generally be willing to sell futures contracts at prices that are below expected future spot prices. Conversely, if the predominant hedgers in the futures market are the purchasers of the crude oil who purchase futures contracts to hedge against a rise in prices, then speculators will only take the short side of the futures contract if the futures price is greater than the expected future spot price of crude oil. This can have significant implications for US12OF when it is time to reinvest the proceeds from a maturing Oil Futures Contract into a new Oil Futures Contract. While US12OF does not intend to take physical delivery of oil under its Oil Futures Contracts, physical delivery under such contracts impacts the value of the contracts. While it is not the current intention of US12OF to take physical delivery of crude oil under any of its Oil Futures Contracts, futures contracts are not required to be cash-settled and it is possible to take delivery under some of these contracts. Storage costs associated with purchasing crude oil could result in costs and other liabilities that could impact the value of Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests. Storage costs include the time value of money invested in crude oil as a physical commodity plus the actual costs of storing the crude oil less any benefits from ownership of crude oil that are not obtained by the holder of a futures contract. In general, Oil Futures Contracts have a one-month delay for contract delivery and the back month (the back month is any future delivery month other than the spot month) includes storage costs. To the extent that these storage costs change for crude oil while US12OF holds Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests, the value of the Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests, and therefore US12OF’s NAV, may change as well. Because it holds Oil Futures Contracts that will mature up to 13 months later than the spot or current month, US12OF’s NAV will be impacted more from the changes in storage costs than would the NAV of a fund that holds more current futures contracts. The price relationship between the near month contract and the other monthly contracts that compose the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts will vary and may impact both the total return over time of US12OF’s NAV, as well as the degree to which its total return tracks other crude oil price indices’ total returns. The Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts consist of the near month contract to expire and the contracts for the following 11 months, except during the last two weeks of the current month when the near month contract is sold and replaced by the futures contract for the thirteenth month following the current month. In the event of a crude oil futures market where near month contracts trade at a higher price than the price of contracts that expire later in time, a situation described as “backwardation” in the futures market, then absent the impact of the overall movement in crude oil prices the value of the benchmark contract would tend to rise as it approaches expiration. As a result, the total return of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract would tend to track higher. Conversely, in the event of a crude oil futures market where near month contracts trade at a lower price than the price of contracts that expire later in time, a situation described as “contango” in the futures market, then absent the impact of the overall movement in crude oil prices the value of the benchmark contract would tend to decline as it approaches expiration. As a result the total return of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract would tend to track lower. When compared to total return of other price indices, such as the spot price of crude oil, the impact of backwardation and contango may lead the total return of US12OF’s NAV to vary significantly. In the event of a prolonged period of contango, and absent the impact of rising or falling oil prices, this could have a significant negative impact on US12OF’s NAV and total return. Furthermore, a portfolio that consists of twelve different monthly contracts, ranging in a “strip” from the first month to the twelfth month, will be impacted differently by contango and backwardation than a portfolio that consists of just the first month contract. 60 Because US12OF’s portfolio will typically hold as many as 12 different crude oil futures contracts at all times, it may be more expensive for US12OF to buy or sell futures contracts for its portfolio. Because US12OF will typically hold as many as 12 different futures contracts at any one time, the cost of trading a large number of different contracts could be greater than the cost of trading the same dollar amount using just one contract. In addition, the bid/ask spread for buying these different contracts could also on average be greater than the bid/ask spread for buying a single futures contract month. This could make it more expensive for US12OF to invest compared to investing in a single monthly contract. Wider bid/ask spreads and/or higher commission or brokerage costs would negatively impact an investor’s investment returns in US12OF. Because US12OF’s portfolio will typically hold as many as 12 different crude oil futures contracts at all times, firms that make a market in the units will also need to hold multiple contracts when hedging their inventories of units and when creating or redeeming baskets. This could lead to the units of US12OF trading at wider bid/ask spreads in the secondary market than an exchange traded security holding crude oil futures that uses a fewer number of futures contracts at any given time. Brokerage firms or other market participants that make a secondary market in the units of US12OF may do so by simultaneously hedging their positions by being long, or short, the same Oil Futures Contracts that US12OF holds in its portfolio. The cost to brokerage firms or other market participants in putting on and taking off these hedges is one of the factors that determine the size of the bid/ask spread they quote on a security such as US12OF. Because US12OF will typically hold as many as 12 different futures contracts at any one time, the brokerage firms or other market participants will also find themselves having to trade a number of different contracts as well. The cost of trading a large number of different contracts may be greater than the cost of trading the same dollar amount using just one contract. As a result, the bid/ask spread for US12OF may be wider than the bid/ask spread for an exchange traded security investing in a fewer number of futures contracts at any given time. The wider bid/ask spread may negatively impact an investor’s investment returns in US12OF. Regulation of the commodity interests and energy markets is extensive and constantly changing; future regulatory developments are impossible to predict but may significantly and adversely affect US12OF. The futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations, and margin requirements. In addition, the CFTC and the exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of a market emergency, including, for example, the retroactive implementation of speculative position limits or higher margin requirements, the establishment of daily price limits and the suspension of trading. The regulation of commodity interest transactions in the United States is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to ongoing modification by governmental and judicial action. Considerable regulatory attention has been focused on non-traditional investment pools that are publicly distributed in the United States. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and otherwise, there is a possibility of future regulatory changes within the United States altering, perhaps to a material extent, the nature of an investment in US12OF or the ability of US12OF to continue to implement its investment strategy. In addition, various national governments outside of the United States have expressed concern regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the energy markets and the need to regulate the derivatives markets in general. The effect of any future regulatory change on US12OF is impossible to predict, but could be substantial and adverse. In the wake of the economic crisis of 2008 and 2009, the Administration, federal regulators and Congress are revisiting the regulation of the financial sector, including securities and commodities markets. These efforts are anticipated to result in significant changes in the regulation of these markets. 61 The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions altering the regulation of commodity interests. Provisions in the new law include the requirement that position limits be established on a wide range of commodity interests including energy-based and other commodity futures contracts, certain cleared commodity swaps and certain over-the-counter commodity contracts; new registration, recordkeeping, capital and margin requirements for “swap dealers” and “major swap participants” as determined by the new law and applicable regulations; and the forced use of clearinghouse mechanisms for most swap transactions that are currently entered into in the over-the-counter market. Additionally, the new law requires the aggregation, for purposes of position limits, of all positions in commodity futures and certain commodity swaps held by a single entity and its affiliates, whether such positions exist on U.S. futures exchanges, non-U.S. futures exchanges, or in over-the-counter swaps. The CFTC, along with the SEC and other federal regulators, has been tasked with developing the rules and regulations enacting the provisions noted above. The new law and the rules that are currently being and are expected to be promulgated thereunder may negatively impact US12OF’s ability to meet its investment objective either through limits or requirements imposed on it or upon its counterparties. In particular, new position limits imposed on US12OF or its counterparties may impact US12OF’s ability to invest in a manner that most efficiently meets its investment objective, and new requirements, including capital and mandatory clearing, may increase the cost of US12OF’s investments and doing business, which could adversely affect US12OF’s investors. For a more detailed discussion of the position limits to be imposed by the CFTC and the potential impacts thereof on US12OF, please see “Item 1. Business – What are Futures Contracts?” in this annual report on Form 10-K. Investing in US12OF for purposes of hedging may be subject to several risks including the possibility of losing the benefit of favorable market movement. Participants in the crude oil or in other industries may use US12OF as a vehicle to hedge the risk of losses in their crude oil-related transactions. There are several risks in connection with using US12OF as a hedging device. While hedging can provide protection against an adverse movement in market prices, it can also preclude a hedger’s opportunity to benefit from a favorable market movement. In a hedging transaction, the hedger may be concerned that the hedged item will increase in price, but must recognize the risk that the price may instead decline and if this happens he will have lost his opportunity to profit from the change in price because the hedging transaction will result in a loss rather than a gain. Thus, the hedger foregoes the opportunity to profit from favorable price movements. In addition, if the hedge is not a perfect one, the hedger can lose on the hedging transaction and not realize an offsetting gain in the value of the underlying item being hedged. When using futures contracts as a hedging technique, at best, the correlation between changes in prices of futures contracts and of the items being hedged can be only approximate. The degree of imperfection of correlation depends upon circumstances such as: variations in speculative markets, demand for futures and for crude oil products, technical influences in futures trading, and differences between anticipated energy costs being hedged and the instruments underlying the standard futures contracts available for trading. Even a well-conceived hedge may be unsuccessful to some degree because of unexpected market behavior as well as the expenses associated with creating the hedge. In addition, using an investment in US12OF as a hedge for changes in energy costs (e.g., investing in crude oil, heating oil, gasoline, natural gas or other fuels, or electricity) may not correlate because changes in the spot price of crude oil may vary from changes in energy costs because the changes in the spot price of crude oil may not be at the same rate as changes in the price of other energy products, and, in any case, the spot price of crude oil does not reflect the refining, transportation, and other costs that may impact the hedger’s energy costs. An investment in US12OF may provide little or no diversification benefits. Thus, in a declining market, US12OF may have no gains to offset losses from other investments, and an investor may suffer losses on an investment in US12OF while incurring losses with respect to other asset classes. Historically, Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests have generally been non-correlated to the performance of other asset classes such as stocks and bonds. Non-correlation means that there is a low statistically valid relationship between the performance of futures and other commodity interest transactions, on the one hand, and stocks or bonds, on the other hand. However, there can be no assurance that such non-correlation will continue during future periods. If, contrary to historic patterns, US12OF’s performance were to move in the same general direction as the financial markets, investors will obtain little or no diversification benefits from an investment in the units. In such a case, US12OF may have no gains to offset losses from other investments, and investors may suffer losses on their investment in US12OF at the same time they incur losses with respect to other investments. 62 Variables such as drought, floods, weather, embargoes, tariffs and other political events may have a larger impact on crude oil prices and crude oil-linked instruments, including Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests, than on traditional securities. These additional variables may create additional investment risks that subject US12OF’s investments to greater volatility than investments in traditional securities. Non-correlation should not be confused with negative correlation, where the performance of two asset classes would be opposite of each other. There is no historic evidence that the spot price of crude oil and prices of other financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, are negatively correlated. In the absence of negative correlation, US12OF cannot be expected to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods for the stock market, or vice versa. US12OF’s Operating Risks US12OF is not a registered investment company so unitholders do not have the protections of the 1940 Act. US12OF is not an investment company subject to the 1940 Act. Accordingly, investors do not have the protections afforded by that statute which, for example, requires investment companies to have a majority of disinterested directors and regulates the relationship between the investment company and its investment manager. USCF is leanly staffed and relies heavily on key personnel to manage trading activities. In managing and directing the day-to-day activities and affairs of US12OF, USCF relies heavily on Messrs. Howard Mah and John Hyland. If Messrs. Mah or Hyland were to leave or be unable to carry out their present responsibilities, it may have an adverse effect on the management of US12OF. Furthermore, Messrs. Mah and Hyland are currently involved in the management of the Related Public Funds, and USCF has filed a registration statement for three other exchange traded security funds, USMI, USAI and USCUI. Mr. Mah is also employed by Ameristock Corporation, a registered investment adviser that manages a public mutual fund. It is estimated that Mr. Mah will spend approximately 90% of his time on US12OF and Related Public Fund matters. Mr. Hyland will spend approximately 100% of his time on US12OF and Related Public Fund matters. To the extent that USCF establishes additional funds, even greater demands will be placed on Messrs. Mah and Hyland, as well as the other officers of USCF and its Board. Accountability levels, position limits, and daily price fluctuation limits set by the exchanges have the potential to cause a tracking error, which could cause the price of units to substantially vary from the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts and prevent investors from being able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. U.S. designated contract markets such as the NYMEX have established accountability levels and position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by US12OF is not) may hold, own or control. For example, the current accountability level for investments at any one time in the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract is 20,000. While this is not a fixed ceiling, it is a threshold above which the NYMEX may exercise greater scrutiny and control over an investor, including limiting an investor to holding no more than 20,000 Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. With regard to position limits, the NYMEX limits an investor from holding more than 3,000 net futures in the last 3 days of trading in the near month contract to expire. In addition to accountability levels and position limits, the NYMEX also sets daily price fluctuation limits on futures contracts. The daily price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of a futures contract may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price. Once the daily price fluctuation limit has been reached in a particular futures contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. For example, the NYMEX imposes a $10.00 per barrel ($10,000 per contract) price fluctuation limit for the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. This limit is initially based off of the previous trading day’s settlement price. If any Benchmark Oil Futures Contract is traded, bid, or offered at the limit for five minutes, trading is halted for five minutes. When trading resumes it begins at the point where the limit was imposed and the limit is reset to be $10.00 per barrel in either direction of that point. If another halt were triggered, the market would continue to be expanded by $10.00 per barrel in either direction after each successive five-minute trading halt. There is no maximum price fluctuation limit during any one trading session. 63 Currently, U.S. futures exchanges, including the NYMEX, do not implement fixed position limits for futures contracts held outside of the last few days of trading in the near month contract to expire. However, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC to promulgate rules establishing position limits for futures and options contracts on commodities as well as for swaps that are economically equivalent to futures or options. On January 13, 2011, the CFTC proposed new rules, which if implemented in their proposed form, would establish position limits and limit formulas for certain physical commodity futures including Oil Futures Contracts and options on Oil Futures Contracts, executed pursuant to the rules of designated contract markets (i.e., certain regulated exchanges) and commodity swaps that are economically equivalent to such futures and options contracts. The CFTC has also proposed aggregate position limits that would apply across different trading venues to contracts based on the same underlying commodity. At this time, it is unknown precisely when such position limits would take effect. The CFTC set position limits for futures contracts held during the last few days of trading in the near month contract to expire, which, under the CFTC’s proposed rule would be substantially similar to the position limits currently set by the exchanges, could take effect as early as March 2011. Based on the CFTC’s current proposal, other position limits would not take effect until March 2012 or later. The effect of this future regulatory change on US12OF is impossible to predict, but it could be substantial and adverse. All of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the units and the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. This may in turn prevent investors from being able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. US12OF has not limited the size of its offering and is committed to utilizing substantially all of its proceeds to purchase Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests. If US12OF encounters accountability levels, position limits, or price fluctuation limits for Oil Futures Contracts on the NYMEX, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Oil Futures Contracts on the ICE Futures or other exchanges that trade listed crude oil futures. The Oil Futures Contracts available on the ICE Futures are comparable to the contracts on the NYMEX, but they may have different underlying commodities, sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, certain of the Oil Futures Contracts available on the ICE Futures are subject to accountability levels and position limits. There are technical and fundamental risks inherent in the trading system USCF employs. USCF’s trading system is quantitative in nature and it is possible that USCF might make a mathematical error. In addition, it is also possible that a computer or software program may malfunction and cause an error in computation. To the extent that USCF uses spreads and straddles as part of its trading strategy, there is the risk that the NAV may not closely track the changes in the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. Spreads combine simultaneous long and short positions in related futures contracts that differ by commodity (e.g., long crude oil and short gasoline), by market (e.g., long WTI crude futures, short Brent crude futures), or by delivery month (e.g., long December, short November). Spreads gain or lose value as a result of relative changes in price between the long and short positions. Spreads often reduce risk to investors, because the contracts tend to move up or down together. However, both legs of the spread could move against an investor simultaneously, in which case the spread would lose value. Certain types of spreads may face unlimited risk, e.g., because the price of a futures contract underlying a short position can increase by an unlimited amount and the investor would have to take delivery or offset at that price. A commodity straddle takes both long and short option positions in the same commodity in the same market and delivery month simultaneously. The buyer of a straddle profits if either the long or the short leg of the straddle moves further than the combined cost of both options. The seller of a straddle profits if both the long and short positions do not trade beyond a range equal to the combined premium for selling both options. If USCF were to utilize a spread or straddle position and the spread performed differently than expected, the results could impact US12OF’s tracking error. This could affect US12OF’s investment objective of having its NAV closely track the changes in the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. Additionally, a loss on a spread position would negatively impact US12OF’s absolute return. 64 US12OF and USCF may have conflicts of interest, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of unitholders. US12OF and USCF may have inherent conflicts to the extent USCF attempts to maintain US12OF’s asset size in order to preserve its fee income and this may not always be consistent with US12OF’s objective of having the value of its units’ NAV track the changes in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. USCF’s officers, directors and employees do not devote their time exclusively to US12OF. These persons are directors, officers or employees of other entities that may compete with US12OF for their services. They could have a conflict between their responsibilities to US12OF and to those other entities. In addition, USCF’s principals, officers, directors or employees may trade futures and related contracts for their own account. A conflict of interest may exist if their trades are in the same markets and at the same time as US12OF trades using the clearing broker to be used by US12OF. A potential conflict also may occur if USCF’s principals, officers, directors or employees trade their accounts more aggressively or take positions in their accounts which are opposite, or ahead of, the positions taken by US12OF. USCF has sole current authority to manage the investments and operations of US12OF, and this may allow it to act in a way that furthers its own interests which may create a conflict with the best interests of investors. Limited partners have limited voting control, which will limit the ability to influence matters such as amendment of the LP Agreement, change in US12OF’s basic investment policy, dissolution of this fund, or the sale or distribution of US12OF’s assets. USCF serves as the general partner to each of US12OF, USOF, USNG, UGA, USHO, USSO, US12NG and USBO and the sponsor for USCI, and will serve as the sponsor for USMI, USAI and USCUI, if such funds offer their securities to the public or begin operations. USCF may have a conflict to the extent that its trading decisions for US12OF may be influenced by the effect they would have on the other funds it manages. These trading decisions may be influenced since USCF also serves as the general partner or sponsor for all of the funds and is required to meet all of the funds’ investment objectives as well as US12OF’s. If USCF believes that a trading decision it made on behalf of US12OF might (i) impede its other funds from reaching their investment objectives, or (ii) improve the likelihood of meeting its other funds’ objectives, then USCF may choose to change its trading decision for US12OF, which could either impede or improve the opportunity for US12OF to meet its investment objective. In addition, USCF is required to indemnify the officers and directors of its other funds if the need for indemnification arises. This potential indemnification will cause USCF’s assets to decrease. If USCF’s other sources of income are not sufficient to compensate for the indemnification, then USCF may terminate and investors could lose their investment. Unitholders may only vote on the removal of USCF and limited partners have only limited voting rights. Unitholders and limited partners will not participate in the management of US12OF and do not control USCF so they will not have influence over basic matters that affect US12OF. Unitholders that have not applied to become limited partners have no voting rights, other than to remove USCF as the general partner of US12OF. Limited partners will have limited voting rights with respect to US12OF’s affairs. Unitholders may remove USCF only if 66 2/3% of the unitholders elect to do so. Unitholders and limited partners will not be permitted to participate in the management or control of US12OF or the conduct of its business. Unitholders and limited partners must therefore rely upon the duties and judgment of USCF to manage US12OF’s affairs. USCF may manage a large amount of assets and this could affect US12OF’s ability to trade profitably. Increases in assets under management may affect trading decisions. In general, USCF does not intend to limit the amount of assets of US12OF that it may manage. The more assets USCF manages, the more difficult it may be for it to trade profitably because of the difficulty of trading larger positions without adversely affecting prices and performance and of managing risk associated with larger positions. 65 US12OF could terminate at any time and cause the liquidation and potential loss of an investor’s investment and could upset the overall maturity and timing of an investor’s investment portfolio. US12OF may terminate at any time, regardless of whether US12OF has incurred losses, subject to the terms of the LP Agreement. In particular, unforeseen circumstances, including the death, adjudication of incompetence, bankruptcy, dissolution, or removal of USCF as the general partner of US12OF could cause US12OF to terminate unless a majority in interest of the limited partners within 90 days of the event elects to continue the partnership and appoints a successor general partner, or the affirmative vote of a majority in interest of the limited partners subject to certain conditions. However, no level of losses will require USCF to terminate US12OF. US12OF’s termination would cause the liquidation and potential loss of an investor’s investment. Termination could also negatively affect the overall maturity and timing of an investor’s investment portfolio. Limited partners may not have limited liability in certain circumstances, including potentially having liability for the return of wrongful distributions. Under Delaware law, a limited partner might be held liable for US12OF obligations as if it were a general partner if the limited partner participates in the control of the partnership’s business and the persons who transact business with the partnership think the limited partner is the general partner. A limited partner will not be liable for assessments in addition to its initial capital investment in any of US12OF’s capital securities representing units. However, a limited partner may be required to repay to US12OF any amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to it under some circumstances. Under Delaware law, US12OF may not make a distribution to limited partners if the distribution causes US12OF’s liabilities (other than liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities) to exceed the fair value of US12OF’s assets. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated the law will be liable to the limited partnership for the amount of the distribution for three years from the date of the distribution. With adequate notice, a limited partner may be required to withdraw from the partnership for any reason. If USCF gives at least fifteen (15) days’ written notice to a limited partner, then USCF may for any reason, in its sole discretion, require any such limited partner to withdraw entirely from the partnership or to withdraw a portion of its partner capital account. USCF may require withdrawal even in situations where the limited partner has complied completely with the provisions of the LP Agreement. US12OF’s existing units are, and any units US12OF issues in the future will be, subject to restrictions on transfer. Failure to satisfy these requirements will preclude a transferee from being able to have all the rights of a limited partner. No transfer of any unit or interest therein may be made if such transfer would (a) violate the then applicable federal or state securities laws or rules and regulations of the SEC, any state securities commission, the CFTC or any other governmental authority with jurisdiction over such transfer, or (b) cause US12OF to be taxable as a corporation or affect US12OF’s existence or qualification as a limited partnership. In addition, investors may only become limited partners if they transfer their units to purchasers that meet certain conditions outlined in the LP Agreement, which provides that each record holder or limited partner or unitholder applying to become a limited partner (each a record holder) may be required by USCF to furnish certain information, including that holder’s nationality, citizenship or other related status. A transferee who is not a U.S. resident may not be eligible to become a record holder or a limited partner if its ownership would subject US12OF to the risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any of its assets under any federal, state or local law or regulation. All purchasers of US12OF’s units, who wish to become limited partners or record holders, and receive cash distributions, if any, or have certain other rights, must deliver an executed transfer application in which the purchaser or transferee must certify that, among other things, he, she or it agrees to be bound by US12OF’s LP Agreement and is eligible to purchase US12OF’s securities. Any transfer of units will not be recorded by the transfer agent or recognized by US12OF unless a completed transfer application is delivered to USCF or the Administrator. A person purchasing US12OF’s existing units, who does not execute a transfer application and certify that the purchaser is eligible to purchase those securities acquires no rights in those securities other than the right to resell those securities. Whether or not a transfer application is received or the consent of USCF obtained, US12OF’s units will be securities and will be transferable according to the laws governing transfers of securities. See “Transfer of Units”. 66 US12OF does not expect to make cash distributions. US12OF has not previously made any cash distributions and intends to re-invest any realized gains in additional oil interests rather than distributing cash to limited partners. Therefore, unlike mutual funds, commodity pools or other investment pools that actively manage their investments in an attempt to realize income and gains from their investing activities and distribute such income and gains to their investors, US12OF generally does not expect to distribute cash to limited partners. An investor should not invest in US12OF if it will need cash distributions from US12OF to pay taxes on its share of income and gains of US12OF, if any, or for any other reason. Although US12OF does not intend to make cash distributions, the income earned from its investments held directly or posted as margin may reach levels that merit distribution, e.g., at levels where such income is not necessary to support its underlying investments in oil interests and investors adversely react to being taxed on such income without receiving distributions that could be used to pay such tax. If this income becomes significant then cash distributions may be made. There is a risk that US12OF will not earn trading gains sufficient to compensate for the fees and expenses that it must pay and as such US12OF may not earn any profit. US12OF pays brokerage charges of approximately 0.01% based on futures commission merchant fees of $3.50 per buy or sell, management fees of 0.60% of NAV on its average net assets, and over-the-counter spreads and extraordinary expenses (e.g., subsequent offering expenses, other expenses not in the ordinary course of business, including the indemnification of any person against liabilities and obligations to the extent permitted by law and required under the LP Agreement and under agreements entered into by USCF on US12OF’s behalf and the bringing and defending of actions at law or in equity and otherwise engaging in the conduct of litigation and the incurring of legal expenses and the settlement of claims and litigation) that cannot be quantified. These fees and expenses must be paid in all cases regardless of whether US12OF’s activities are profitable. Accordingly, US12OF must earn trading gains sufficient to compensate for these fees and expenses before it can earn any profit. If offerings of the units do not raise sufficient funds to pay US12OF’s future expenses and no other source of funding of expenses is found, US12OF may be forced to terminate and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Prior to the offering of units that commenced on December 6, 2007, all of US12OF’s expenses were funded by USCF and its affiliates. These payments by USCF and its affiliates were designed to allow US12OF the ability to commence the public offering of its units. US12OF now directly pays certain of these fees and expenses. USCF will continue to pay other fees and expenses, as set forth in the LP Agreement. If USCF and US12OF are unable to raise sufficient funds to cover their expenses or locate any other source of funding, US12OF may be forced to terminate and investors may lose all or part of their investment. US12OF may incur higher fees and expenses upon renewing existing or entering into new contractual relationships. The clearing arrangements between the clearing brokers and US12OF generally are terminable by the clearing brokers once the clearing broker has given US12OF notice. Upon termination, USCF may be required to renegotiate or make other arrangements for obtaining similar services if US12OF intends to continue trading in Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests at its present level of capacity. The services of any clearing broker may not be available, or even if available, these services may not be available on the terms as favorable as those of the expired or terminated clearing arrangements. 67 US12OF may miss certain trading opportunities because it will not receive the benefit of the expertise of independent trading advisors. USCF does not employ trading advisors for US12OF; however, it reserves the right to employ them in the future. The only advisor to US12OF is USCF. A lack of independent trading advisors may be disadvantageous to US12OF because it will not receive the benefit of a trading advisor’s expertise. An unanticipated number of redemption requests during a short period of time could have an adverse effect on the NAV of US12OF. If a substantial number of requests for redemption of Redemption Baskets are received by US12OF during a relatively short period of time, US12OF may not be able to satisfy the requests from US12OF’s assets not committed to trading. As a consequence, it could be necessary to liquidate positions in US12OF’s trading positions before the time that the trading strategies would otherwise dictate liquidation. The financial markets are currently in a period of disruption and US12OF does not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Currently and throughout 2008, 2009 and the first half of 2010, the financial markets have experienced very difficult conditions and volatility as well as significant adverse trends. The conditions in these markets have resulted in a decrease in availability of corporate credit and liquidity and have led indirectly to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of major financial institutions and have contributed to further consolidation within the financial services industry. Although the financial markets saw signs of recovery beginning in late 2010, the financial markets are still fragile and could fall into another recession. Another recession could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of US12OF’s service providers and Authorized Purchasers which would impact the ability of USCF to achieve US12OF’s investment objective. The failure or bankruptcy of a clearing broker could result in a substantial loss of US12OF’s assets; the clearing broker could be subject to proceedings that impair its ability to execute US12OF’s trades. Under CFTC regulations, a clearing broker maintains customers’ assets in a bulk segregated account. If a clearing broker fails to do so, or even if the customers’ funds are segregated by the clearing broker if the clearing broker is unable to satisfy a substantial deficit in a customer account, the clearing broker’s other customers may be subject to risk of a substantial loss of their funds in the event of that clearing broker’s bankruptcy. In that event, the clearing broker’s customers, such as US12OF, are entitled to recover, even in respect of property specifically traceable to them, only a proportional share of all property available for distribution to all of that clearing broker’s customers. The bankruptcy of a clearing broker could result in the complete loss of US12OF’s assets posted with the clearing broker; though the vast majority of US12OF’s assets are held in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents with US12OF’s custodian and would not be impacted by the bankruptcy of a clearing broker. US12OF also may be subject to the risk of the failure of, or delay in performance by, any exchanges and markets and their clearing organizations, if any, on which commodity interest contracts are traded. In addition, to the extent US12OF’s clearing broker is required to post US12OF’s assets as margin to a clearinghouse, the margin will be maintained in an omnibus account containing the margin of all of the clearing broker’s customers. If US12OF’s clearing broker defaults to the clearinghouse because of a default by one of the clearing broker’s other customers or otherwise, then the clearinghouse can look to all of the margin in the omnibus account, including margin posted by US12OF and any other non-defaulting customers of the clearing broker to satisfy the obligations of the clearing broker. From time to time, the clearing brokers may be subject to legal or regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their business. A clearing broker’s involvement in costly or time-consuming legal proceedings may divert financial resources or personnel away from the clearing broker’s trading operations, which could impair the clearing broker’s ability to successfully execute and clear US12OF’s trades. 68 The failure or insolvency of US12OF’s custodian could result in a substantial loss of US12OF’s assets. As noted above, the vast majority of US12OF’s assets are held in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents with US12OF’s custodian. The insolvency of the custodian could result in a complete loss of US12OF’s assets held by that custodian, which, at any given time, would likely comprise a substantial portion of US12OF’s total assets. Third parties may infringe upon or otherwise violate intellectual property rights or assert that USCF has infringed or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights, which may result in significant costs and diverted attention. Third parties may utilize US12OF’s intellectual property or technology, including the use of its business methods, trademarks and trading program software, without permission. USCF has a patent pending for US12OF’s business method and it is registering its trademarks. US12OF does not currently have any proprietary software. However, if it obtains proprietary software in the future, then any unauthorized use of US12OF’s proprietary software and other technology could also adversely affect its competitive advantage. US12OF may have difficulty monitoring unauthorized uses of its patents, trademarks, proprietary software and other technology. Also, third parties may independently develop business methods, trademarks or proprietary software and other technology similar to that of USCF or claim that USCF has violated their intellectual property rights, including their copyrights, trademark rights, trade names, trade secrets and patent rights. As a result, USCF may have to litigate in the future to protect its trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, defend itself against claims that it has infringed or otherwise violated other parties’ rights, or defend itself against claims that its rights are invalid. Any litigation of this type, even if USCF is successful and regardless of the merits, may result in significant costs, divert its resources from US12OF, or require it to change its proprietary software and other technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. The success of US12OF depends on the ability of USCF to accurately implement trading systems, and any failure to do so could subject US12OF to losses on such transactions. USCF uses mathematical formulas built into a generally available spreadsheet program to decide whether it should buy or sell oil interests each day. Specifically, USCF uses the spreadsheet to make mathematical calculations and to monitor positions in oil interests and Treasuries and correlations to the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts. USCF must accurately process the spreadsheets’ outputs and execute the transactions called for by the formulas. In addition, US12OF relies on USCF to properly operate and maintain its computer and communications systems. Execution of the formulas and operation of the systems are subject to human error. Any failure, inaccuracy or delay in implementing any of the formulas or systems and executing US12OF’s transactions could impair its ability to achieve US12OF’s investment objective. It could also result in decisions to undertake transactions based on inaccurate or incomplete information. This could cause substantial losses on transactions. US12OF may experience substantial losses on transactions if the computer or communications system fails. US12OF’s trading activities, including its risk management, depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. Extraordinary transaction volume, hardware or software failure, power or telecommunications failure, a natural disaster or other catastrophe could cause the computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. Any significant degradation or failure of the systems that USCF uses to gather and analyze information, enter orders, process data, monitor risk levels and otherwise engage in trading activities may result in substantial losses on transactions, liability to other parties, lost profit opportunities, damages to USCF’s and US12OF’s reputations, increased operational expenses and diversion of technical resources. If the computer and communications systems are not upgraded, US12OF’s financial condition could be harmed. The development of complex computer and communications systems and new technologies may render the existing computer and communications systems supporting US12OF’s trading activities obsolete. In addition, these computer and communications systems must be compatible with those of third parties, such as the systems of exchanges, clearing brokers and the executing brokers. As a result, if these third parties upgrade their systems, USCF will need to make corresponding upgrades to continue effectively its trading activities. US12OF’s future success will depend on US12OF’s ability to respond to changing technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis. 69 US12OF depends on the reliable performance of the computer and communications systems of third parties, such as brokers and futures exchanges, and may experience substantial losses on transactions if they fail. US12OF depends on the proper and timely function of complex computer and communications systems maintained and operated by the futures exchanges, brokers and other data providers that USCF uses to conduct trading activities. Failure or inadequate performance of any of these systems could adversely affect USCF’s ability to complete transactions, including its ability to close out positions, and result in lost profit opportunities and significant losses on commodity interest transactions. This could have a material adverse effect on revenues and materially reduce US12OF’s available capital. For example, unavailability of price quotations from third parties may make it difficult or impossible for USCF to use its proprietary software that it relies upon to conduct its trading activities. Unavailability of records from brokerage firms may make it difficult or impossible for USCF to accurately determine which transactions have been executed or the details, including price and time, of any transaction executed. This unavailability of information also may make it difficult or impossible for USCF to reconcile its records of transactions with those of another party or to accomplish settlement of executed transactions. The occurrence of a terrorist attack, or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities could disrupt US12OF’s trading activity and materially affect US12OF’s profitability. The operations of US12OF, the exchanges, brokers and counterparties with which US12OF does business, and the markets in which US12OF does business could be severely disrupted in the event of a major terrorist attack or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities. Global anti-terrorism initiatives and political unrest in the Middle East and Southeast Asia continue to fuel this concern. Risk of Leverage and Volatility If USCF permits US12OF to become leveraged, investors could lose all or substantially all of their investment if US12OF’s trading positions suddenly turn unprofitable. Commodity pools’ trading positions in futures contracts or other commodity interests are typically required to be secured by the deposit of margin funds that represent only a small percentage of a futures contract’s (or other commodity interests’) entire market value. This feature permits commodity pools to “leverage” their assets by purchasing or selling futures contracts (or other commodity interests) with an aggregate value in excess of the commodity pool’s assets. While this leverage can increase the pool’s profits, relatively small adverse movements in the price of the pool’s futures contracts can cause significant losses to the pool. While USCF has not and does not currently intend to leverage US12OF’s assets, it is not prohibited from doing so under the LP Agreement or otherwise. The price of crude oil is volatile which could cause large fluctuations in the price of units. Movements in the price of crude oil may be the result of factors outside of USCF’s control and may not be anticipated by USCF. Among the factors that can cause volatility in the price of crude oil are: · worldwide or regional demand for energy, which is affected by economic conditions; · the domestic and foreign supply and inventories of oil and gas; · weather conditions, including abnormally mild winter or summer weather, and abnormally harsh winter or summer weather; · availability and adequacy of pipeline and other transportation facilities; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · political conditions in gas or oil producing regions; 70 · technological advances relating to energy usage or relating to technology for exploration, production, refining and petrochemical manufacturing; · the ability of members of OPEC to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; and · the impact of energy conservation efforts. The impact of environmental and other governmental laws and regulations may affect the price of crude oil. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil wells. Other laws have prevented exploration and drilling of crude oil in certain environmentally sensitive federal lands and waters. Several environmental laws that have a direct or an indirect impact on the price of crude oil include, but are not limited to, the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. The limited method for transporting and storing crude oil may cause the price of crude oil to increase. Crude oil is transported throughout the United States by way of pipelines, barges, tankers, trucks and rail cars and is stored in aboveground and underground storage facilities. These systems may not be adequate to meet demand, especially in times of peak demand or in areas of the United States where crude oil service is already limited due to minimal pipeline and storage infrastructure. As a result of the limited method for transporting and storing crude oil, the price of crude oil may increase. Over-the-Counter Contract Risk Currently, over-the-counter transactions are subject to little regulation. A portion of US12OF’s assets may be used to trade over-the-counter crude oil interest contracts, such as forward contracts or swap or spot contracts. Over-the-counter contracts are typically traded on a principal-to-principal basis through dealer markets that are dominated by major money center and investment banks and other institutions and are essentially unregulated by the CFTC. Investors therefore do not receive the protection of CFTC regulation or the statutory scheme of the CEA in connection with this trading activity by US12OF. The markets for over-the-counter contracts primarily rely upon the integrity of market participants in lieu of the additional regulation imposed by the CFTC on participants in the futures markets. The limited regulation in these markets could expose US12OF in certain circumstances to significant losses in the event of trading abuses or financial failure by participants. US12OF will be subject to credit risk with respect to counterparties to over-the-counter contracts entered into by US12OF or held by special purpose or structured vehicles. US12OF faces the risk of non-performance by the counterparties to the over-the-counter contracts. Unlike in futures contracts, the counterparty to these contracts is generally a single bank or other financial institution, rather than a clearing organization backed by a group of financial institutions. As a result, there will be greater counterparty credit risk in these transactions. A counterparty may not be able to meet its obligations to US12OF, in which case US12OF could suffer significant losses on these contracts. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations due to financial difficulties, US12OF may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery in a bankruptcy or other reorganization proceeding. US12OF may obtain only limited recovery or may obtain no recovery in such circumstances. 71 US12OF may be subject to liquidity risk with respect to its over-the-counter contracts. Over-the-counter contracts may have terms that make them less marketable than Oil Futures Contracts. Over-the-counter contracts are less marketable because they are not traded on an exchange, do not have uniform terms and conditions, and are entered into based upon the creditworthiness of the parties and the availability of credit support, such as collateral, and in general, they are not transferable without the consent of the counterparty. These conditions diminish the ability to realize the full value of such contracts. In addition, even if collateral is used to reduce counterparty credit risk, sudden changes in the value of over-the-counter transactions may leave a party open to financial risk due to a counterparty default since the collateral held may not cover a party’s exposure on the transaction in such situations. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and SEC to establish “both initial and variation margin requirements on all swaps that are not cleared by a registered clearing organization” (i.e., uncleared swaps). In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act provides parties who post initial margin to a swap dealer or major swap participant with a statutory right to insist that such margin be held in a segregated account with an independent custodian. At this time, the CFTC has proposed a rule addressing this statutory right of certain market participants but has not implemented any rules on this issue and has not implemented any regulations regarding the margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Risk of Trading in International Markets Trading in international markets could expose US12OF to credit and regulatory risk. USCF invests primarily in Oil Futures Contracts, a significant portion of which are traded on United States exchanges, including the NYMEX. However, a portion of US12OF’s trades may take place on markets and exchanges outside the United States. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. The CFTC, NFA and the domestic exchanges have little, if any, regulatory authority over the activities of any foreign boards of trade or exchanges, including the execution, delivery and clearing of transactions, and have little, if any, power to compel enforcement of the rules of a foreign board of trade or exchange or of any applicable non-U.S. laws. Similarly, the rights of market participants, such as US12OF, in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a non-U.S. market or broker are also likely to be more limited than in the case of U.S. markets or brokers. As a result, in these markets, US12OF has less legal and regulatory protection than it does when it trades domestically. In some of these non-U.S. markets, the performance on a contract is the responsibility of the counterparty and is not backed by an exchange or clearing corporation and therefore exposes US12OF to credit risk. Trading in non-U.S. markets also leaves US12OF susceptible to swings in the value of the local currency against the U.S. dollar. Additionally, trading on non-U.S. exchanges is subject to the risks presented by exchange controls, expropriation, increased tax burdens and exposure to local economic declines and political instability. An adverse development with respect to any of these variables could reduce the profit or increase the loss earned on trades in the affected international markets. International trading activities subject US12OF to foreign exchange risk. The price of any non-U.S. Oil Futures Contract, option on any non-U.S. Oil Futures Contract, or other non-U.S. Crude Oil Interest and, therefore, the potential profit and loss on such contract, may be affected by any variance in the foreign exchange rate between the time the order is placed and the time it is liquidated, offset or exercised. As a result, changes in the value of the local currency relative to the U.S. dollar may cause losses to US12OF even if the contract traded is profitable. US12OF’s international trading could expose it to losses resulting from non-U.S. exchanges that are less developed or less reliable than United States exchanges. Some non-U.S. exchanges may be in a more developmental stage so that prior price histories may not be indicative of current price dynamics. In addition, US12OF may not have the same access to certain positions on foreign trading exchanges as do local traders, and the historical market data on which USCF bases its strategies may not be as reliable or accessible as it is for U.S. exchanges. 72 Tax Risk An investor’s tax liability may exceed the amount of distributions, if any, on its units. Cash or property will be distributed at the sole discretion of USCF. USCF has not and does not currently intend to make cash or other distributions with respect to units. Investors will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax and, in some cases, state, local or foreign income tax, on their allocable share of US12OF’s taxable income, without regard to whether they receive distributions or the amount of any distributions. Therefore, the tax liability of an investor with respect to its units may exceed the amount of cash or value of property (if any) distributed. An investor’s allocable share of taxable income or loss may differ from its economic income or loss on its units. Due to the application of the assumptions and conventions applied by US12OF in making allocations for tax purposes and other factors, an investor’s allocable share of US12OF’s income, gain, deduction or loss may be different than its economic profit or loss from its units for a taxable year. This difference could be temporary or permanent and, if permanent, could result in it being taxed on amounts in excess of its economic income. Items of income, gain, deduction, loss and credit with respect to units could be reallocated if the IRS does not accept the assumptions and conventions applied by US12OF in allocating those items, with potential adverse consequences for an investor. The U.S. tax rules pertaining to partnerships are complex and their application to large, publicly traded partnerships such as US12OF is in many respects uncertain. US12OF applies certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with the intent of the applicable rules and to report taxable income, gains, deductions, losses and credits in a manner that properly reflects unitholders’ economic gains and losses. These assumptions and conventions may not fully comply with all aspects of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) and applicable Treasury Regulations, however, and it is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will successfully challenge US12OF’s allocation methods and require US12OF to reallocate items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit in a manner that adversely affects investors. If this occurs, investors may be required to file an amended tax return and to pay additional taxes plus deficiency interest. US12OF could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which may substantially reduce the value of the units. US12OF has received an opinion of counsel that, under current U.S. federal income tax laws, US12OF will be treated as a partnership that is not taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, provided that (i) at least 90 percent of US12OF’s annual gross income consists of “qualifying income” as defined in the Code, (ii) US12OF is organized and operated in accordance with its governing agreements and applicable law and (iii) US12OF does not elect to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although USCF anticipates that US12OF has satisfied and will continue to satisfy the “qualifying income” requirement for all of its taxable years, that result cannot be assured. US12OF has not requested and will not request any ruling from the IRS with respect to its classification as a partnership not taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully assert that US12OF is taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes in any taxable year, rather than passing through its income, gains, losses and deductions proportionately to unitholders, US12OF would be subject to tax on its net income for the year at corporate tax rates. In addition, although USCF does not currently intend to make distributions with respect to units, any distributions would be taxable to unitholders as dividend income. Taxation of US12OF as a corporation could materially reduce the after-tax return on an investment in units and could substantially reduce the value of the units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 