Risk Factors” and those included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. It is routine for internal projections and expectations to change as the year or each quarter in the year progresses, and therefore it should be clearly understood that all forward-looking statements and the internal projections, judgments and beliefs upon which we base our expectations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other periodic reports or otherwise are made only as of the date made and may change. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “Constant Contact”, the “Company”, “we” or “us” means Constant Contact, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Constant Contact Securities Corporation. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Constant Contact is a leading provider of on-demand email marketing and online survey solutions for small organizations, including small businesses, associations and non-profits. Our customers use our email marketing product to more effectively and efficiently create, send and track professional and affordable permission-based email marketing campaigns. With these campaigns, our customers can build stronger relationships with their customers, clients and members, increase sales and expand membership. Our email marketing product incorporates a wide range of customizable templates to assist in campaign creation, user-friendly tools to import and manage contact lists and intuitive reporting to track campaign effectiveness. As of December 31, 2008, we had 253,421 email marketing customers. We also offer an online survey product that complements our email marketing product and enables our customers to easily create and send surveys and effectively analyze responses. As of December 31, 2008, we had 17,488 survey customers, substantially all of which were also email marketing customers. We are committed to providing our customers with a high level of support complemented by educational tools and best practices, which we deliver via phone, chat, email and our website. We provide our products on an on-demand basis through a web browser. This model enables us to deploy and maintain a secure and scalable application that is easy for our customers to implement at compelling prices. Our email marketing customers pay a monthly subscription fee that generally ranges between $15 per month and $150 per month based on the size of their contact lists and, in some cases, volume of mailings. Our survey customers pay a flat monthly fee of $15 that enables them to receive and track a maximum of 5,000 survey responses per month. We offer discounts for multiple product purchases and prepayments and to non-profits. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the average monthly amount that we charged a customer for our email marketing solution alone was approximately $33.00. In addition, in 2008, our average monthly total revenue per email marketing customer, including all sources of revenue, was $35.01. We believe that the simplicity of on-demand deployment combined with our affordable subscription fees and functionality facilitate adoption of our products by our target customers. Our email marketing customer base has grown steadily from approximately 25,000 at the end of 2004 to over 253,000 as of December 31, 2008. Our customers include all types of small organizations including retailers, restaurants, day spas, law firms, consultants, non-profits, religious organizations, alumni associations and other small businesses and organizations. Customers in more than 120 countries and territories currently use our email marketing product. We estimate that approximately two-thirds of our customers have fewer than ten employees and, in the year ended December 31, 2008, our top 100 email marketing customers accounted for approximately 1% of our total email marketing revenue. Our customers have displayed a high degree of loyalty. From January 2005 through December 2008, at least 97.4% of our customers in a given month have continued to subscribe to our email marketing product in the following month. We market our products and acquire our customers through a variety of sources including online advertising, channel partnerships, national radio advertising, regional initiatives, referrals, print advertising and general brand awareness. Our online advertising includes search engine marketing, including pay-per-click advertising, and advertising on online networks and other websites, including banner advertising. Our channel partnerships are contractual relationships with over 3,500 active partners, which include national small business service providers such as Network Solutions, LLC, American Express Company and Intuit Inc., as well as local small business service providers such as web developers and marketing agencies, who refer customers to us through links on their websites and outbound promotions to their customers. Our national radio advertising initiative, which we launched in September 2008, is designed to raise awareness of the benefits of email marketing and our brand. Our regional initiatives include local seminars and local advertising, including print and online. Referral customers come from word-of-mouth from our customer base and the inclusion of a link to our website in the footer of the more than 1.3 billion emails currently sent by our customers each month. Finally, we believe our general brand awareness, press and thought leadership initiatives and visibility drive prospects 2 Table of Contents to us. During 2008, we estimate that approximately 22% of our new email marketing customers were generated from prospects that clicked on our pay-per-click or banner advertisements and approximately 15% of our new email marketing customers were generated through our channel partners. We believe the remaining 63% came from the combination of regional initiatives, radio advertising, referrals and general brand awareness. We were incorporated in Massachusetts in August 1995 under the name Roving Software Incorporated. We reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000 and changed our name to Constant Contact, Inc. in December 2006. Our on-demand email marketing product was first offered commercially in 2000. Our principal executive offices are located at 1601 Trapelo Road, Suite 329, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451. Our telephone number is (781) 472-8100. Our website address is www.constantcontact.com. We are not including the information contained on our website or any information that may be accessed by links on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Through a link on the Investors Relations section of our website, we make available our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. All such filings are available free of charge. These filings are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. Industry Background Benefits of Email Marketing We believe organizations are increasingly turning to email marketing as a means to communicate with their customers, clients and members. Key benefits that drive adoption of email marketing include the following: • Targeted. Email marketing enables organizations to tailor messages to specific audiences and enables recipients to respond through links to websites. • Timely. The cycle from concept through design and execution for email marketing is much shorter than direct mail because there is no need to print and mail. Reducing cycle time allows organizations to rapidly respond to market conditions and opportunities. • Efficient. Email marketing combines low cost with measurable responses leading to an attractive return on investment. Constant Contact Market Opportunity We believe email marketing is an excellent fit for small organizations. Small businesses and non-profits tend to rely heavily on repeat sales and referrals to grow their businesses and expand their membership bases, and we believe email marketing is a cost effective way to reach these audiences. Small organizations also represent a large market opportunity. The U.S. Small Business Administration estimated that there were 27.2 million small businesses in the United States in 2007. In 2006, the National Center of Charitable Statistics estimated that there were approximately 1.5 million non-profits in the United States. Other small organizations that use email marketing include online auction sellers, independent musicians, community organizations, school districts, parent/teacher associations and sports leagues. Based on these estimates, we believe our email marketing product could potentially address the needs of more than 28 million small organizations domestically. We believe that all small organizations could benefit by communicating regularly with their constituents and, further, that email marketing with our product is an effective and affordable method to facilitate this type of communication. As of December 31, 2008, we had customers in at least 893 of the 1,005 4-digit standard industrial classification, or SIC, codes, which is a method the U.S. government uses to classify industries in the United States. 3 Table of Contents At the same time, small organizations have generally been slower than larger organizations to adopt email marketing as part of their marketing mix. We believe they face unique challenges when adopting email marketing including: • Unfamiliar with Email Marketing. Many small organizations are not familiar with the benefits of email marketing and do not understand how to effectively build a permission-based contact list, develop an effective email marketing campaign and measure its effectiveness. • Lack of Technical Expertise. Small organizations often do not have the technical expertise to implement email marketing software or to design and execute effective email marketing campaigns. • Limited Budgets. Small organizations typically have small marketing budgets. They generally cannot afford to hire in-house staff or engage an outside marketing agency to develop, execute and evaluate an email marketing campaign, particularly during times of economic distress. We also believe most existing alternatives for email marketing are poorly suited to meet the needs of small organizations. Some of these existing alternatives include: • General Email Applications. General email applications and services such as Microsoft Outlook®, Google Gmail®, America Online® and Microsoft Hotmail® are generally designed for one-to-one emails. They do not easily incorporate the formatting, graphics, and links necessary to produce professional-looking email marketing campaigns. They also limit the number of recipients per email and do not have the reporting capabilities to allow users to evaluate the effectiveness of their email marketing campaigns. Finally, they do not provide regulatory compliance tools to assist the sender in complying with anti-spam requirements. • Enterprise Service Providers. Enterprise service providers, such as Epsilon Data Management LLC (a subsidiary of Alliance Data Systems Corporation), ExactTarget, Inc., Responsys Inc. and Silverpop Systems Inc. focus on large organizations with sizeable marketing budgets. These providers offer sophisticated, Internet-based marketing services and tools with professional and customized execution and reporting at a price and scale that is generally beyond the scope of most small organizations. As a result, we believe there is an opportunity for an email marketing solution tailored to the needs of small organizations. These users seek an affordable, easy-to-use email marketing solution with a professional appearance and reliable performance. Our Solution We provide small organizations with a convenient, affordable and effective way to communicate with their constituents via email. Our email marketing product delivers the following benefits to small organizations: • Easy. We enable customers to easily create great looking email marketing campaigns without prior expertise in marketing, graphic design or Hyper Text Markup Language, or HTML. Our product includes over 375 customizable templates intelligently organized to streamline creation of a professional-looking message. We also provide customers with tools that make it easy for them to import, build and manage contact lists and to monitor delivery and response. We further enhance our product with free customer support and daily webinars covering topics ranging from a general product tour to email marketing best practices. • Fast. Because our product is accessed through the web, customers only need access to a computer and the Internet to begin using it to create and send their first email campaign. A customer can typically create and send their first campaign in less than one hour. Once a customer has loaded their contact list, created and sent their first campaign, our product becomes even faster to use as this information is stored and can be easily accessed for future use. • Affordable. We offer our email marketing product on a subscription basis, eliminating the up-front license fee associated with traditional software. Instead, we encourage potential customers to try our product without charge for a 60-day period. After the free trial, customers can use our product for a subscription fee of as low as $15 per month with the amount of the fee increasing based on the number of unique contacts or email addresses in a customer’s contact list. We provide discounted pricing for prepayments, non-profits and multiple product purchases. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the average monthly amount that we charged a customer for our email marketing solution alone was approximately $33.00. 4 Table of Contents • Effective. Our product provides our customers with an effective way to reach their customers, clients and members. According to data measured by ReturnPath, Inc., approximately 98% of our customers’ emails were delivered past any spam filters or controls to their target email inboxes in the United States during 2008. We have made significant investments in systems and processes to reduce the number of our customers’ emails that are blocked as possible spam. In addition, to help ensure that customers’ emails are delivered, we have developed relationships with leading Internet Service Providers, or ISPs. • Measurable. Our email marketing campaign reports provide customers with information and data regarding each campaign. In addition to receiving aggregate data on email receipt, open rates and click-through rates per campaign, our customers can identify on an individual basis which contacts received and opened an email and which links in the email they clicked on. We also provide comparable metrics for our overall customer base. This feedback permits customers to alter the content or timing of their campaigns to capitalize on aspects of prior campaigns that were positively received by their constituents. Business Strengths We believe that the following business strengths differentiate us from competitors and are key to our success: • Focus on Small Organizations. We have maintained a consistent and exclusive focus on small organizations, which has enabled us to design a full customer experience tuned to their unique needs. Through the website experience, product usability, affordable price point and personal touch of our communications consultants and customer support representatives, we work to ensure that small organizations feel that we are committed to their success. • Efficient Customer Acquisition Model. We believe that we have developed an efficient customer acquisition model that generates an attractive return on our sales and marketing expenditures. We utilize a variety of marketing channels to acquire new customers including online advertising, partner relationships, radio advertising, online and in-person seminars and brand awareness. In 2008, our cost of email marketing customer acquisition, which we define as our total annual sales and marketing expense divided by the gross number of email marketing customers added during the year, was approximately $304 per email marketing customer. For 2008, our average monthly total revenue per email marketing customer, including all sources of revenue, was $35.01, implying payback on a revenue basis in less than one year. • High Degree of Recurring Revenue. We benefit from a high level of customer loyalty. From January 2005 through December 2008, at least 97.4% of customers in a given month have continued to subscribe to our email marketing product in the following month. We believe this represents a high level of customer retention, particularly given the transient nature of many small organizations. These customers provide us with a significant base of recurring revenue and generate new customer referrals. • Consistent Commitment to Customer Service. We seek to provide our customers with a high level of customer support in order to encourage trials and ongoing usage of our product. We conduct online webinars and in-person events to educate potential customers about the benefits of email marketing. In addition, our communications consultants seek to contact all new U.S. and Canadian based trial customers to help them launch an initial campaign and address any questions or concerns. In 2008, we won the Stevie® Award for “Best Customer Service Team” for The 2008 American Business Awards. As a result, we believe we have a highly satisfied customer base. • Software-as-a-Service Delivery. We provide our product on an on-demand basis, meaning that our customers can access and use our product through a standard web browser. This enables our customers to rapidly begin using our product with few up-front costs and limited technical expertise. It also enables us to serve additional customers with little incremental expense and to deploy new applications and upgrades quickly and efficiently to our existing customers. 5 Table of Contents Our Products and Services Email Marketing Our email marketing product allows customers to easily create, send and track professional-looking email campaigns. Our product provides customers with the following features: • Campaign Creation Wizard. This comprehensive, easy-to-use interface enables our customers to create and edit email campaigns. Through intuitive controls, customers can readily change colors, fonts, borders and backgrounds and insert images and logos to help ensure that their emails appear polished and professional. The wizard operates on a “what-you-see-is-what-you-get” basis whereby a customer can move paragraphs and blocks of content within the draft email quickly and view the message from the perspective of intended recipients. • Professionally Developed Templates. These pre-designed email message forms help customers quickly create attractive and professional campaigns. Over 375 templates provide ideas about the kinds of emails customers can send, including newsletters, event invitations, business letters, promotions and announcements, and demonstrate, through the use of color and format, the creativity and professionalism of a potential campaign. Our advanced editing functionality enables customers to easily modify the templates. We also provide templates designed to appeal to specific vertical markets. For example, we offer a restaurant template that includes a pre-formatted menu section and a retail template designed to promote men’s apparel. • Contact List Management. These tools help customers build and manage their email contact lists. Our contact list building tools include file and spreadsheet import functionality as well as software plug-ins to import contact lists maintained in Microsoft’s Outlook® and Outlook Express® and Intuit’s QuickBooks®. We also provide HTML programming code for a “Join My Mailing List” box that can be included on the customer’s web site and used to gather new contacts. Our list management tools enable a customer to target or segment contacts for all or specific campaigns and monitor email addresses to which previous campaigns could not be delivered. In addition to their constituents’ names and email addresses, several additional customizable fields are available for the purposes of personalizing email messages. Unsubscribe requests are automatically processed to help ensure ongoing compliance with government regulations and email marketing best practices. • Email Tracking and Reporting. These features enable our customers to review and analyze the overall effectiveness of a campaign by tracking and reporting aggregate information including how many emails were delivered, how many were opened, and which links were clicked on. These features also enable our customers to identify on an individual basis which contacts received an email, opened an email and clicked on particular links within the message. • Email Delivery Management. These tools are incorporated throughout our product and are designed to maintain our high deliverability rates. Some of these tools are readily apparent to our customers, such as in-depth delivery tracking. Others are delivered through back-office processes, such as a spam content check and address validation. To further improve the percentage of emails delivered, we work closely with ISPs on spam prevention issues. We also include processes and verifications that greatly increase compliance with anti-spam standards. • Premium Image Hosting. We enable customers to store up to five images for free, view and edit these images and resize them as necessary for use in their email campaigns. For customers who elect to purchase our premium image hosting option, we offer them access to our stock image gallery with thousands of images to choose from and allow them to store up to approximately 1,200 personal images (25 megabytes). The premium image hosting option costs an additional $5.00 per month. By adding images to an email message, a customer can make the campaign more compelling and visually appealing. • Email Archive. We offer our customers the ability to create a hosted version of current and past email communications on our system and make them readily available to their constituents via a link on a 6 Table of Contents customer’s website. The service, which is available for an additional $5.00 per month, extends the life of up to 100 email communications and provides our customers an ability to showcase to online visitors the extent and breadth of their communication efforts. • Security and Privacy. We protect our customers’ data at a higher level than we believe many of our customers do themselves. We do not use our customers’ confidential information, including their contact lists, except to provide our product, nor do we share, sell or rent this information. In addition, we require that our customers adopt a privacy policy to assist them in complying with government regulations and email marketing best practices. Survey Our online survey product enables our customers to survey their customers, clients or members and analyze the responses. By selecting one of our customizable templates and editing or entering their own questions, our customers can easily create a professionally formatted survey. Similar to our email marketing product, our survey product includes a survey creation wizard, over 40 different preformatted and customizable survey templates, list management capabilities and live customer support. By incorporating a real-time and comprehensive reporting function, our survey product enables our customers to analyze overall survey results and specific answers submitted by individual respondents. Our survey product includes analytic features that enable our customers to segment results based on survey responses, easily edit filters for “slice and dice” analysis and view the results in intuitive, easy-to-understand graphical and detailed data formats. Results can be exported to a Microsoft Excel® file for additional analysis. Our customers can identify the respondents associated with filtered results and create a unique contact list of these respondents who can then be targeted with a specific message or follow-up email campaign. In addition, we offer an online polling feature that enables our customers to create online polls for use on their websites. Responses can be viewed immediately. Customer Support We provide free customer support to all customers. Our communication consultants seek to contact U.S. and Canadian based trial customers by phone to answer any questions and to help them launch their first campaign. Additional assistance is available via phone, chat or email. In the fourth quarter of 2008, our customer support employees answered approximately 2,000 calls per day with an average wait time of less than two minutes. Our phone and chat support teams are located both at our headquarters in Waltham, Massachusetts and at our sales and support call center in Loveland, Colorado. We outsource a portion of our email support to a third party based in Bangalore, India. We complement our customer support with free daily product tours offered via our website, an archive of frequently asked questions, or FAQs, and webinars that explain the benefits of email marketing and survey. Our customer support group is responsible for enforcing our permission and prohibited content policies. We work closely with customers who have higher than average spam complaint rates or bounced emails, and with customers whose emails are flagged by our system as possibly including prohibited content or spam, to assist them in complying with our policies. If we cannot resolve outstanding concerns, we terminate our agreement with the customer. As of December 31, 2008, we had 178 employees working in customer support. Professional Services Although the majority of our customers select the “do-it-yourself” approach, we also offer professional services to customers who would like their email campaigns and surveys prepared for them. Our service offerings range from a low-cost, getting started service to custom email and survey campaign creation. 7 Table of Contents Pricing Every customer experience starts with a free 60-day trial. The only requirement for the free trial is that the trial customer must enter a valid email address that we verify before they can send an initial campaign. The trial is a fully-featured experience that is limited to 100 email contacts or 100 responses in the case of our survey product. All of our customer support resources are available during the free trial period. At the conclusion of the 60-day trial (or earlier if the customer’s contact list exceeds 100 contacts in the case of the email marketing product or there are in excess of 100 responses in the case of the survey product), we ask the customer to provide payment information in order to begin billing for continued use of our products. Once the customer’s free trial experience has ended and the customer becomes a paying customer, we price our email marketing product based upon the number of unique email addresses in a customer’s account. Set forth below are the first several pricing tiers: Number of Unique Email Addresses Monthly Pricing Up to 500 $ 15.00 501-2,500 $ 30.00 2,501-5,000 $ 50.00 5,001-10,000 $ 75.00 10,001-25,000 $ 150.00 Customers in these pricing tiers may send an unlimited number of emails per month. During 2008, approximately 80% of our email marketing customers were in our two lowest pricing tiers, $15.00 and $30.00 per month. We offer additional pricing tiers for large list customers. These large list customers are limited as to the number of emails they can send per month for a fixed monthly fee, with overage charges assessed on emails exceeding the monthly limit. Our survey product is priced at a flat fee of $15 per month, subject to a maximum of 5,000 survey responses per month. We offer our premium image hosting services for $5.00 per month for customers with less than 350,000 unique email addresses and our email archive service for $5.00 per month. We offer discounted rates to non-profits and for customers who purchase both our email marketing and survey products and discounted pricing options for those customers that pay for six or twelve months in advance. Customers We have maintained a consistent and exclusive focus on small organizations. As of December 31, 2008, we served a large and diverse group of over 253,000 email marketing customers and over 17,000 survey customers, substantially all of which were also email marketing customers. This customer base is comprised of business-to-business users, business-to-consumer users and non-profits and associations. We serve a wide range of business-to-business customers including law firms, accountants, marketing and public relations firms, recruiters and independent consultants. They typically use our product to illustrate their subject matter knowledge by communicating their recent activities and to educate their audiences by sending informational newsletters and announcements about their company or industry. We also serve a diverse base of business-to-consumer customers including on- and off-line retailers, restaurants, realtors, travel and tourism businesses and day spas. These customers typically use our product to promote their offerings with the goal of generating regular, repeat business from their customers and prospects. Finally, we serve a variety of non-profits and associations, including religious organizations, charities, trade associations, alumni associations, and other non-profits. They typically use our product to maintain regular communications with their members and inform them about news and events pertaining to their groups, as well as to drive event attendance, volunteer participation and fundraising efforts. We estimate that approximately two-thirds of our customers have fewer than ten employees. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the average monthly amount that we charged a customer for our email marketing product alone was approximately $33.00. In addition, in 2008, our average monthly total revenue per email marketing customer, including email marketing revenue, image hosting revenue, email archive revenue, survey 8 Table of Contents revenue and professional services revenue, was $35.01. We have low customer concentration as our top 100 email marketing customers in 2008 accounted for approximately 1% of our total email marketing revenue. We measure customer satisfaction on a monthly basis by surveying our customers. Based on these surveys, we believe that our overall customer satisfaction is strong. Another indication of our strong customer satisfaction is our low customer attrition rate. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to attract potential customers to our website, to enroll them in a free trial, to convert them to paying customers and to retain them as ongoing paying customers. We believe there are significant opportunities to increase the number of customers who try our products through additional sales and marketing initiatives. We employ sophisticated strategies to acquire our customers by using a variety of sources including online advertising, channel partnerships, national radio advertising, regional initiatives, referrals and general brand awareness. We also invest in public relations and thought leadership in an effort to build our overall brand and visibility. We are constantly seeking and testing new methods to reach and convert more customers. Customer Acquisition Sources Online Advertising. We advertise online through pay-per-click spending with search engines (including Google and Yahoo!) and banner advertising with online advertising networks and other websites likely to be frequented by small organizations. We are able to identify customers generated through these efforts because they click on our advertisements before visiting our site, and we measure effectiveness based on the number of customers acquired. Approximately 22% of our new email marketing customers in 2008 were generated from prospects who clicked on our pay-per-click or banner advertising. Channel Partners. We have contractual relationships with over 3,500 active online channel partners who refer customers to us through links on their websites and outbound promotions to their customers. These channel partners include national small business service providers with broad reach including Network Solutions, LLC, American Express Company and Intuit, Inc., smaller companies with narrow reach but high influence, such as web designers and marketing agencies, and large and small franchise organizations. Most of our channel partners either share a percentage of the cash received by us or receive a one-time referral fee. A website design and hosting company, Web.com Group, Inc., bundles our services and provides them directly to its customers. Web.com Group, Inc. pays us monthly royalties, which contributed less than one percent of our total revenue during 2008. Approximately 15% of our new email marketing customers in 2008 were generated from our channel partners. Radio Advertising. Our radio advertising is designed to build awareness of the Constant Contact brand and drive market awareness. In September 2008, we launched a national radio campaign on several major national radio networks that was designed to reach the majority of radio markets in the United States. Print Advertising. Our print advertising is comprised of advertisements in national publications such as Entrepreneur as well as local business publications in our geographically targeted metro regions. Our geographically targeted print advertising supports our local evangelism efforts. Word-of-Mouth Referrals. We frequently hear from new customers that they heard about us from a current customer. We also offer our paying customers a referral incentive consisting of a $30 credit for them and for the customer they referred. Even though we offer this incentive, the majority of referral customers do not use the incentive program. Footer Click-Throughs. New customers also come to us by clicking on the Constant Contact link included in the footer of more than 1.3 billion emails currently sent by our existing customers each month. 9 Table of Contents Sales Efforts Communications Consultants. We employed a team of 49 phone-based sales professionals as of December 31, 2008 who call U.S. and Canadian based trial customers to assist them in their initial use of our email marketing and survey products and encourage conversion to a paid subscription. Local Evangelism. As of December 31, 2008, we employed a team of 11 regional development directors who are focused on educating small organizations as to the benefits of email marketing in their local markets. These employees are located across the United States and typically provide free local seminars to chambers of commerce and other small business groups about email marketing, survey and related topics. Distance Learning. We offer free online webinars to prospects and customers on a wide variety of topics designed to educate them about the benefits of email marketing and survey, teach them how to be productive email marketers and guide them in the use of our products. Other Marketing Initiatives Press Relations and Thought Leadership. We leverage our customer base as a survey panel to assess small business expectations around major press cycles such as Valentine’s Day, Mother’s Day and the December holiday season. We publish the results and seek to get print and radio coverage of our results. We also publish email marketing and survey best practices and advice through our Hints & Tips newsletters and a monthly column in Entrepreneur.com. These efforts enhance our brand awareness and industry leadership. Website Marketing. We continuously measure both website visitor-to-trial conversion and trial-to-paying conversion. We test messaging, graphics and layout alternatives in order to improve conversion from website visitor to trial customer and from trial customer to paying customer. We also seek to customize our website with vertical or usage-specific messaging whenever possible. We carefully analyze website and trial customer usage to understand and overcome barriers to conversion. Vertical Marketing. We specifically develop marketing programs and target public relations efforts at certain vertical markets that have demonstrated an affinity for our products. We adjust our target vertical markets based on our existing customer base, market opportunity and overall value to our business. Community. We maintain an online user community for both trial and paying customers with discussion boards, a resource center, member spotlights and other features. As of December 31, 2008, we had in excess of 18,000 members of the community. In the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we spent $42.9 million, $27.4 million and $18.6 million, respectively, on sales and marketing. Our cost of customer acquisition during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $304, $257 and $305, respectively, per email marketing customer, defined as our total annual sales and marketing expense divided by the gross number of email marketing customers added during the year. Technology and Operations Our on-demand products use a central application and a single software code base with unique accounts for each customer. As a result, we are able to spread the cost of providing our products across our entire customer base. In addition, because we have one central application, we believe we are able to scale our business to meet increases in demand for our products. Scalability is achieved through advanced use of application partitioning to allow for horizontal scaling across multiple sets of applications. This enables individual application subsystems to scale independently as required by volume and usage. Our production system hardware and the disaster recovery hardware for our production system are each co-located in third-party hosting facilities located in Eastern Massachusetts. One facility is owned and operated by Sentinel Properties-Bedford, LLC and they provide services to us under an agreement that expires in December 2013. The second facility is owned and operated by Internap Network Services Corporation and they provide services to us under an agreement that expires in March 2011. Both facilities provide around-the-clock security personnel, video surveillance and access controls, and are serviced by onsite 10 Table of Contents electrical generators, fire detection and suppression systems. Both facilities also have multiple Tier 1 interconnects to the Internet. We own all of the hardware deployed in support of our platform. We continuously monitor the performance and availability of our products. We have a highly available, scalable infrastructure that utilizes load-balanced web server pools, redundant interconnected network switches and firewalls, replicated databases, and fault-tolerant storage devices. Production data is backed up on a daily basis and stored in multiple locations to ensure transactional integrity and restoration capability. Changes to our production environment are tracked and managed through a formal maintenance request process. Production baseline changes are handled much the same as software product releases and are first tested on a quality system, then verified in a staging environment, and finally deployed to the production system. Research and Development We have made substantial investments in research and development, and expect to continue to do so as a part of our strategy to continually improve the ease of use and technological scalability of our existing products as well as to develop new offerings. As of December 31, 2008, we had 103 employees working in our engineering and product strategy organizations. Our product strategy organization, which directs our research and development efforts, includes market analysts, product managers, and website and user interface designers. This group also performs competitive and market analysis as well as systematic product usability testing. Our research and development expense totaled approximately $15.1 million for 2008, $10.3 million for 2007 and $6.2 million for 2006. Competition The market for email marketing vendors is fragmented, competitive and evolving. We believe the following are the principal competitive factors in the email marketing market: • product functionality, performance and reliability; • integrated solutions; • customer support and education; • email deliverability rates; • product scalability; • ease of use; and • cost. The email marketing market is divided into two segments — vendors who are focused on the small to medium size business, or SMB, market and vendors who are focused on the enterprise market. We primarily compete with vendors focused on the SMB market. Some of the vendors who are focused on the SMB market include: Vertical Response, Inc., iContact Corporation, AWeber Systems, Inc., Protus, Inc. (Campaigner®), Emma, Inc., The Rocket Science Group LLC (MailChimptm) and Lyris Technologies, Inc. These vendors typically charge a low monthly entry fee or a low fee per number of emails sent. Vendors that are focused on the enterprise market include Alterian Inc., ExactTarget, Inc., Responsys Inc., Silverpop Systems Inc., StrongMail Systems, Inc. and CheetahMail, Inc. (a subsidiary of Experian Group Limited). We believe enterprise email marketing vendors charge their customers significantly more per month than we do and provide a full-service model, which generally includes an account executive and creative team who often assist with content development. While we currently do not generally compete with vendors focusing on enterprise customers, we may face competition from them in the future. We may also face future competition in the email marketing market from new companies entering our market, which may include large, established companies, such as Microsoft Corporation, Google Inc. or Yahoo! Inc. 11 Table of Contents Barriers to entry into our market are relatively low, which allows new entrants to enter the market without significant impediments and large, established companies to develop their own competitive products or acquire or establish cooperative relationships with our competitors. In addition, these companies may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. These potential competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new technologies and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. These competitors may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we do that they could leverage to obtain a significant portion of the email marketing market. In addition, these competitors may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. Moreover, if one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors or a new market entrant, the change in competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our survey product competes with similar offerings by Zoomerang (a division of Market Tools, Inc.) and Surveymonkey.com Corporation and with offerings from some of our email marketing competitors. Government Regulation The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM Act, establishes requirements for commercial email and specifies penalties for commercial email that violates the Act. In addition, the CAN-SPAM Act gives consumers the right to require emailers to stop sending them commercial email. The CAN-SPAM Act covers email sent for the primary purpose of advertising or promoting a commercial product, service, or Internet web site. The Federal Trade Commission, a federal consumer protection agency, is primarily responsible for enforcing the CAN-SPAM Act, and the Department of Justice, other federal agencies, State Attorneys General, and ISPs also have authority to enforce certain of its provisions. The CAN-SPAM Act’s main provisions include: • prohibiting false or misleading email header information; • prohibiting the use of deceptive subject lines; • ensuring that recipients may, for at least 30 days after an email is sent, opt out of receiving future commercial email messages from the sender, with the opt-out effective within 10 days of the request; • requiring that commercial email be identified as a solicitation or advertisement unless the recipient affirmatively permitted the message; and • requiring that the sender include a valid postal address in the email message. The CAN-SPAM Act also prohibits unlawful acquisition of email addresses, such as through directory harvesting, and transmission of commercial emails by unauthorized means, such as through relaying messages with the intent to deceive recipients as to the origin of such messages. Violations of the CAN-SPAM Act’s provisions can result in criminal and civil penalties, including statutory penalties that can be based in part upon the number of emails sent, with enhanced penalties for commercial emailers who harvest email addresses, use dictionary attack patterns to generate email addresses, and/or relay emails through a network without permission. The CAN-SPAM Act acknowledges that the Internet offers unique opportunities for the development and growth of frictionless commerce, and the CAN-SPAM Act was passed, in part, to enhance the likelihood that wanted commercial email messages would be received. We believe we are a leader in developing policies and practices affecting our industry and that our permission-based email marketing model and our anti-spam policy are compatible with current CAN-SPAM Act regulatory requirements. We are a founding member of the Email Sender and Provider Coalition, or ESPC, a cooperative industry organization founded to develop and implement industry-wide improvements in spam protection and solutions to prevent inadvertent blocking of 12 Table of Contents legitimate commercial email. We maintain high standards that apply to all of our customers, including non-profits and political organizations, whether or not they are covered by the CAN-SPAM Act. The CAN-SPAM Act preempts, or blocks, most state restrictions specific to email, except for rules against falsity or deception in commercial email, fraud and computer crime. The scope of these exceptions, however, is not settled, and some states have adopted email regulations that, if upheld, could impose liabilities and compliance burdens on us and on our customers in addition to those imposed by the CAN-SPAM Act. Moreover, some foreign countries, including the countries of the European Union and Israel, have regulated the distribution of commercial email and the online collection and disclosure of personal information. Foreign governments may attempt to apply their laws extraterritorially or through treaties or other arrangements with U.S. governmental entities. Our customers may be subject to the requirements of the CAN-SPAM Act, and/or other applicable state or foreign laws and regulations affecting email marketing. If our customers’ email campaigns are alleged to violate applicable email laws or regulations and we are deemed to be responsible for such violations, or if we were deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements, we could be exposed to liability. Our standard terms and conditions require our customers to comply with laws and regulations applicable to their email marketing campaigns and to implement any required regulatory safeguards. We take additional steps to facilitate our customers’ compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act, including the following: • new customers signing up for our services must agree that they will send email through our service only to persons who have given their permission; • when an email contact list is uploaded, the customer must certify that it has permission to email each of the addressees; • when an individual indicates that they want to be added to a mailing list, they may receive a confirmation email and may be required to confirm their intent to be added to the contact list, through a process called double opt-in; • we electronically inspect all of our customers’ email contact lists to check for spam traps, dictionary attack patterns and lists that fail to meet our permission standards; and • for customers with large email address lists, we conduct list review interviews to verify that the list is properly acquired and permission-based and that the proposed messages meet our content standards. Initial campaigns using such lists are conducted in stages, so that we can terminate the campaign early if the use of the list generates an unusually high number of complaints. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark, patent and other rights in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. We have filed one pending patent application. Others may develop products that are similar to our technology. We enter into confidentiality and other written agreements with our employees, consultants and partners, and through these and other written agreements, we attempt to control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary technology and other information. These confidentiality and other written agreements, however, offer only limited protection, and we may not be able to enforce our rights under such agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, third parties may, in an unauthorized manner, attempt to use, copy or otherwise obtain and market or distribute our intellectual property rights or technology or otherwise develop a product with the same functionality as our product. Policing unauthorized use of our products and intellectual property rights is difficult and nearly impossible on a worldwide basis. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken or will take in the future will prevent misappropriations of our technology or intellectual property rights. 13 Table of Contents “Constant Contact®” is a registered trademark in the United States and in the European Union. We also hold trademarks and service marks identifying certain of our products or features of our products. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we employed a total of 456 employees. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and believe that our relations with our employees are good. Facilities Our corporate headquarters, including our principal administrative, marketing, sales and support and research and development organizations, is located in Waltham, Massachusetts. We lease approximately 83,000 square feet in this facility under a lease agreement that expires in September, 2010. As of December 31, 2008, 389 of our employees were based in this facility. In Loveland, Colorado, we lease approximately 9,000 square feet of temporary office space pursuant to a lease that we currently expect to expire in April 2009. We use this facility for sales and support personnel and, as of December 31, 2008, 50 employees were based in this location. We also lease approximately 50,000 square feet of office space in Loveland, Colorado under a lease agreement that we currently expect will expire in April 2019. We expect to occupy approximately 25,000 square feet of the new facility in April 2009, at which time the lease at the temporary facility will terminate. We expect to occupy the remainder of the new facility in April 2010. The new facility will also be used for sales and support personnel. If we require additional space, we believe that we will be able to obtain such space on acceptable, commercially reasonable terms. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY If we are unable to attract new customers and retain existing customers on a cost-effective basis, our business and results of operations will be affected adversely. To succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of customers on a cost-effective basis, many of whom have not previously used an email marketing service. We rely on a variety of methods to attract new customers, such as paying providers of online services, search engines, directories and other websites to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our website, national radio advertising and including a link to our website in substantially all of our customers’ emails. In addition, we are committed to providing our customers with a high level of support. As a result, we believe many of our new customers are referred to us by existing customers. If we are unable to use any of our current marketing initiatives or the cost of such initiatives were to significantly increase or such initiatives or our efforts to satisfy our existing customers are not successful, we may not be able to attract new customers or retain existing customers on a cost-effective basis and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be affected adversely. 14 Table of Contents Current economic conditions may negatively affect the small business sector, which may cause our customers to terminate existing accounts with us or cause potential customers to fail to purchase our products, resulting in a decrease in our revenue and impairing our ability to operate profitably. Our email marketing and survey products are designed specifically for small organizations, including small businesses, associations and non-profits that frequently have limited budgets and may be more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than their larger, more established counterparts. Small organizations may choose to spend the limited funds that they have on items other than our products and may experience higher failure rates. Moreover, if small organizations experience economic hardship, they may be unwilling or unable to expend resources on marketing, including email marketing, which would negatively affect the overall demand for our products, increase customer attrition and could cause our revenue to decline. In addition, we have limited experience operating our business during an economic downturn. Accordingly, we do not know if our current business model will continue to operate effectively during the current economic downturn. Furthermore, we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, but the longer the duration the greater risks we face in operating our business. There can be no assurance, therefore, that current economic conditions or worsening economic conditions, or a prolonged or recurring recession, will not have a significant adverse impact on our operating and financial results. Our business is substantially dependent on the market for email marketing services for small organizations. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from our email marketing product for small organizations, including small businesses, associations and non-profits. As a result, widespread acceptance of email marketing among small organizations is critical to our future growth and success. The overall market for email marketing and related services is relatively new and still evolving, and small organizations have generally been slower than larger organizations to adopt email marketing as part of their marketing mix. There is no certainty regarding how or whether this market will develop, or whether it will experience any significant contractions. Our ability to attract and retain customers will depend in part on our ability to make email marketing convenient, effective and affordable. If small organizations determine that email marketing does not sufficiently benefit them, existing customers may cancel their accounts and potential customers may decide not to adopt email marketing. In addition, many small organizations lack the technical expertise to effectively send email marketing campaigns. As technology advances, however, small organizations may establish the capability to manage their own email marketing and therefore have no need for our email marketing product. If the market for email marketing services fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our services may decline and our revenue would suffer. U.S. federal legislation entitled Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 imposes certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails, which could minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing product, and establishes financial penalties for non-compliance, which could increase the costs of our business. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM Act, establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, some states have passed laws regulating commercial email practices that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act, particularly Utah and Michigan, which have enacted do-not-email registries listing minors who do not wish to receive unsolicited commercial email that markets certain covered content, such as adult or other harmful products. Some portions of these state laws may not be preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act. The ability of our customers’ constituents to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing product. Moreover, non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act carries significant financial penalties. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of commercial email, 15 Table of Contents whether as a result of violations by our customers or if we were deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements, we could be required to pay penalties, which would adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. We also may be required to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, which could impair our ability to attract and retain customers or increase our operating costs. Evolving regulations concerning data privacy may restrict our customers’ ability to solicit, collect, process and use data necessary to conduct email marketing campaigns or to send surveys and analyze the results or may increase their costs, which could harm our business. Federal, state and foreign governments have enacted, and may in the future enact, laws and regulations concerning the solicitation, collection, processing or use of consumers’ personal information. Such laws and regulations may require companies to implement privacy and security policies, permit users to access, correct and delete personal information stored or maintained by such companies, inform individuals of security breaches that affect their personal information, and, in some cases, obtain individuals’ consent to use personal information for certain purposes. Other proposed legislation could, if enacted, prohibit the use of certain technologies that track individuals’ activities on web pages or that record when individuals click through to an Internet address contained in an email message. Such laws and regulations could restrict our customers’ ability to collect and use email addresses, page viewing data, and personal information, which may reduce demand for our products. They may also negatively impact our ability to effectively market our products. In the event we are unable to minimize the loss of our existing customers or to grow our customer base by adding new customers, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our growth strategy requires us to minimize the loss of our existing customers and grow our customer base by adding new customers. Customers cancel their accounts for many reasons, including economic concerns, business failure or a perception that they do not use our product effectively, the service is a poor value and they can manage their email campaigns without our product. In some cases, we terminate an account because the customer fails to comply with our standard terms and conditions. We must continually add new customers to replace customers whose accounts are cancelled or terminated, which may involve significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate. If too many of our customers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new customers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results would be adversely affected. If the security of our customers’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be severely harmed, we may be exposed to liability and we may lose the ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Our system stores our customers’ proprietary email distribution lists, credit card information and other critical data. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, adverse regulatory action by federal and state governments, time-consuming and expensive litigation and other possible liabilities as well as negative publicity, which could severely damage our reputation. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our customers’ data, our relationships with our customers will be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, many states, including Massachusetts, have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, and we could lose customers and fail to acquire new customers. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain our compliance with the data protection policy documentation standards adopted by the major credit card issuers, we could lose our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Any loss of our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option would make our products less attractive to many small organizations by negatively impacting our customer experience and significantly increasing our administrative costs related to customer payment processing. Our existing general liability insurance may not cover any, or only a portion of any potential claims to which we are exposed or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all or any portion of liabilities that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage would increase our operating losses and reduce our net worth and working capital. As Internet commerce develops, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt new laws to regulate Internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to email marketing. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our customers in the form of increased subscription fees. In addition, federal, state and foreign governmental or regulatory agencies may decide to impose taxes on services provided over the Internet or via email. Such taxes could discourage the use of the Internet and email as a means of commercial marketing, which would adversely affect the viability of our products. As we attempt to expand our customer base through our marketing efforts, our new customers may use our products differently than our existing customers and, accordingly, our business model may not be as efficient at attracting and retaining new customers. As we attempt to expand our customer base, our new customers may use our products differently than our existing customers. For example, a greater percentage of new customers may take advantage of the free trial period we offer but ultimately choose to use another form of marketing to reach their constituents. If our new customers are not as loyal as our existing customers, our attrition rate will increase and our customer referrals will decrease, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, as we seek to expand our customer base, we expect to increase our marketing spend in order to attract new customers, which will increase our operating costs. There can be no assurance that these marketing efforts will be successful. The market in which we participate is competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for our products is competitive and rapidly changing, and the barriers to entry are relatively low. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants to the market, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales, limit customer attrition and maintain our prices. Our principal competitors include providers of email marketing products for small to medium size businesses such as Vertical Response, Inc., iContact Corporation, AWeber Systems, Inc., Protus, Inc. (Campaigner®), Emma, Inc., The Rocket Science Group LLC (MailChimptm) and Lyris Technologies, Inc., as well as the in-house information technology capabilities of prospective customers. Competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our email marketing product to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. In addition, there are a number of other vendors that are focused on providing email marketing products for larger organizations, including Alterian Inc., ExactTarget, Inc., Responsys Inc., Silverpop Systems Inc., StrongMail Systems, Inc. and CheetahMail, Inc. (a subsidiary of Experian Group Limited). While we do not compete currently with vendors serving larger customers, we may face future competition from these providers if they determine that our target market presents an opportunity for them. Finally, in the future, we may experience competition from Internet Service Providers, or ISPs, advertising and direct marketing agencies and other large established businesses, such as Microsoft 17 Table of Contents Corporation, Google Inc. or Yahoo! Inc., possessing large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels. If these companies decide to develop, market or resell competitive email marketing products, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our operating results could be harmed. In addition, one or more of these ISPs or other businesses could decide to offer a competitive email marketing product at no cost or low cost in order to generate revenue as part of a larger product offering. Our survey product competes with similar offerings by Zoomerang (a division of Market Tools, Inc.) and Surveymonkey.com Corporation and with offerings from some of our email marketing competitors. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Our current and potential competitors may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have. In addition, these companies may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have and may be able to bundle an email marketing product with other products that have gained widespread market acceptance. These competitors may be better able to respond quickly to new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. If we are unable to compete with such companies, the demand for our products could substantially decline. If the delivery of our customers’ emails is limited or blocked, the fees we may be able to charge for our email marketing product may not be accepted by the market and customers may cancel their accounts. ISPs can block emails from reaching their users. Recent releases of ISP software and the implementation of stringent new policies by ISPs make it more difficult to deliver our customers’ emails. We continually improve our own technology and work closely with ISPs to maintain our deliverability rates. If ISPs materially limit or halt the delivery of our customers’ emails, or if we fail to deliver our customers’ emails in a manner compatible with ISPs’ email handling or authentication technologies, then the fees we charge for our email marketing product may not be accepted by the market, and customers may cancel their accounts. Some of the internet protocol addresses associated with our email marketing product are owned and controlled by Internap Network Services Corporation, which operates one of our third-party hosting facilities. We are currently migrating to internet protocol addresses owned and controlled solely by us. If we experience difficulties with this migration, our deliverability rates could suffer and it could undermine the effectiveness of our customers’ email marketing campaigns. This, in turn, could harm our business and financial performance. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand in a cost-effective manner, we may lose market share and our revenue may decrease. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the Constant Contact brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to our goal of achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our industry increases. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and the effectiveness and affordability of our products for our target customer demographic. Historically, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expense, and it is likely that our future marketing efforts will require us to incur additional significant expenses. Such brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue and, even if they do, any revenue increases may not offset the expenses we incur to promote our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may lose our existing customers to our competitors or be unable to attract new customers, which would cause our revenue to decrease. 18 Table of Contents We depend on search engines to attract a significant percentage of our customers, and if those search engines change their listings or our relationship with them deteriorates or terminates, we may be unable to attract new customers, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many of our customers located our website by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google and Yahoo!. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Purchased listings can be purchased by advertisers in order to attract users to their websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract a significant percentage of the customers we serve to our website. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, this could result in fewer customers clicking through to our website, requiring us to resort to other costly resources to replace this traffic, which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and negatively impact our operating results, harming our business. If one or more search engines on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, or our revenue could decline and our business may suffer. The cost of purchased search listing advertising fluctuates and may increase as demand for these channels grows, and any such increases could have negative effects on our financial results. The success of our business depends on the continued growth and acceptance of email as a communications tool, and the related expansion and reliability of the Internet infrastructure. If consumers do not continue to use email, demand for our email marketing products may decline. The future success of our business depends on the continued and widespread adoption of email as a primary means of communication. Security problems such as “viruses,” “worms” and other malicious programs or reliability issues arising from outages and damage to the Internet infrastructure could create the perception that email is not a safe and reliable means of communication, which would discourage businesses and consumers from using email. Use of email by businesses and consumers also depends on the ability of ISPs to prevent unsolicited bulk email, or “spam,” from overwhelming consumers’ inboxes. In recent years, ISPs have developed new technologies to filter unwanted messages before they reach users’ inboxes. In response, spammers have employed more sophisticated techniques to reach consumers’ inboxes. Although companies in the anti-spam industry have started to address the techniques used by spammers, if security problems become widespread or frequent or if ISPs cannot effectively control spam, the use of email as a means of communication may decline as consumers find alternative ways to communicate. Any decrease in the use of email would reduce demand for our email marketing product and harm our business. Various private spam blacklists have in the past interfered with, and may in the future interfere with, the effectiveness of our products and our ability to conduct business. We depend on email to market to and communicate with our customers, and our customers rely on email to communicate with their constituents. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of email for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain email solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, and the websites, ISPs and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals, that do not adhere to those standards of conduct or practices for commercial email solicitations that the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, emails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. Some of our Internet protocol addresses currently are listed with one or more blacklisting entities and, in the future, our other Internet protocol addresses may also be listed with these and other blacklisting entities. There can be no guarantee that we will not continue to be blacklisted or that we will be able to successfully remove ourselves from those lists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our products and services and communicate with our customers and could undermine the effectiveness of our customers’ email marketing campaigns, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Any efforts we may make in the future to promote our services to market segments other than small organizations or to expand our product offerings beyond email marketing may not succeed. To date, we have largely focused our business on providing our email marketing product for small organizations, but we may in the future seek to serve other market segments and expand our service offerings. In 2007, we introduced our survey product, which enables customers to create and send online surveys and analyze responses, and our add-on email archive service that enables our customers to archive their past email campaigns. Any efforts to expand beyond the small organization market or to introduce new products beyond our email marketing product, including our survey product, may not result in revenue growth, may divert management resources from our existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unproven business or product, which may harm our financial performance. Our customers’ use of our products to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications could damage our reputation, and we may face liability for unauthorized, inaccurate or fraudulent information distributed via our products. Our customers could use our email marketing product to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications, reproduce and distribute copyrighted material without permission, or report inaccurate or fraudulent data or information. Any such use of our products could damage our reputation and we could face claims for damages, copyright or trademark infringement, defamation, negligence or fraud. Moreover, our customers’ promotion of their products and services through our email marketing product may not comply with federal, state and foreign laws. We cannot predict whether our role in facilitating these activities would expose us to liability under these laws. Even if claims asserted against us do not result in liability, we may incur substantial costs in investigating and defending such claims. If we are found liable for our customers’ activities, we could be required to pay fines or penalties, redesign business methods or otherwise expend resources to remedy any damages caused by such actions and to avoid future liability. Our existing general liability insurance may not cover any, or only a portion of any potential claims to which we are exposed or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all or any portion of liabilities that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage would increase our operating losses and reduce our net worth and working capital. If we fail to enhance our existing products or develop new products, our products may become obsolete or less competitive and we could lose customers. If we are unable to enhance our existing products or develop new products that keep pace with rapid technological developments and meet our customers’ needs, our business will be harmed. Creating and designing such enhancements and new products entail significant technical and business risks and require substantial expenditures and lead-time, and there is no guarantee that such enhancements and new products will be completed in a timely fashion. Nor is there any guarantee that any new product offerings will gain acceptance among our email marketing customers or by the broader market. For example, our existing email marketing customers may not view any new product as complementary to our email product offerings and therefore decide not to purchase such product. If we cannot enhance our existing services or develop new products or if we are not successful in selling such enhancements and new products to our customers, we could lose customers or have difficulty attracting new customers, which would adversely impact our financial performance. Our relationships with our channel partners may be terminated or may not continue to be beneficial in generating new email marketing customers, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our customer base. We maintain a network of active channel partners, which include national small business service providers such as Network Solutions, LLC, American Express Company and Intuit, Inc. as well as local small business service providers such as web developers and marketing agencies, who refer customers to us through links on 20 Table of Contents their websites and outbound promotion to their customers. If we are unable to maintain our contractual relationships with existing channel partners or establish new contractual relationships with potential channel partners, we may experience delays and increased costs in adding customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The number of customers we are able to add through these marketing relationships is dependent on the marketing efforts of our partners over which we exercise very little control, and a significant decrease in the number of gross customer additions generated through these relationships could adversely affect the size of our customer base and revenue. Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees whom we need to support our business. Competition for highly skilled technical and marketing personnel is intense, and we continue to face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel in many areas of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In particular, candidates making employment decisions, particularly in high-technology industries, often consider the value of any equity they may receive in connection with their employment. As a result, any significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain highly skilled technical and marketing personnel. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring and training their replacements and the quality of our services and our ability to serve our customers could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. Our anticipated growth could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our anticipated growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. We are currently experiencing a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial reporting infrastructure. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our senior management to manage this expected growth effectively. To do so, we believe we will need to continue to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. If our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and update our reporting procedures and systems, which will likely include installing a new billing system in 2009. The expected addition of new employees and the capital investments that we anticipate will be necessary to manage our anticipated growth will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our anticipated growth, we will be unable to execute our business plan. If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, Gail F. Goodman, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, is critical to the management of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction. The loss of the services of Ms. Goodman or other executive officers or key personnel and the process to replace any of our key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. 21 Table of Contents Any significant disruption in service on our website or in our computer systems, or in our customer support services, could reduce the attractiveness of our products and result in a loss of customers. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology and our underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of customer service, reputation and ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Our production system hardware and the disaster recovery operations for our production system hardware are co-located in third-party hosting facilities. One facility is owned and operated by Sentinel Properties-Bedford, LLC and is located in Bedford, Massachusetts. The other facility is owned and operated by Internap Network Services Corporation and is located in Somerville, Massachusetts. Neither Sentinel nor Internap guarantees that our customers’ access to our products will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on Sentinel’s and Internap’s ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, air quality, temperature, humidity and other environmental concerns, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. In the event that our arrangement with Sentinel or Internap is terminated, or there is a lapse of service or damage to the Sentinel or Internap facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities. In addition, our customer support services, which are located at our headquarters in Waltham, Massachusetts and our sales and support office in Loveland, Colorado, would experience interruptions as a result of any disruption of electrical, phone or any other similar facility support services. Any interruptions or delays in access to our products or customer support, whether as a result of Sentinel, Internap, or other third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers and our reputation. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors could damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees’ attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause customers to cancel their accounts, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our production disaster recovery system is located at one of our third-party hosting facilities. Our corporate disaster recovery system is located at our headquarters in Waltham, Massachusetts. Neither system provides real time backup or has been tested under actual disaster conditions and neither may have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage. In the event of a disaster in which our production system hardware and the disaster recovery operations for our production system hardware are irreparably damaged or destroyed, we would experience interruptions in access to our products. Moreover, our headquarters, our production system hardware and the disaster recovery operations for our production system hardware are all located within several miles of each other. As a result, any regional disaster could affect all three locations equally. Any or all of these events could cause our customers to lose access to our products. We rely on third-party computer hardware and software that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors or failures of our service. We rely on computer hardware purchased and software licensed from third parties in order to offer our products, including hardware from such large vendors as International Business Machines Corporation, Dell Computer Corporation, Sun Microsystems, Inc. and EMC Corporation. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we lose the right to use any of this hardware or software or such hardware or software malfunctions, our customers could experience delays or be unable to access our services until we can obtain and integrate equivalent technology or repair the cause of the malfunctioning hardware or software. Any delays or failures associated with our services could upset our customers and harm our business. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our unpatented proprietary information, processes and know-how and our trade secrets, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. We rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how and trade secrets. Although we try to protect this information in part by executing confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties, such agreements may offer only limited protection and may be breached. Any unauthorized 22 Table of Contents disclosure or dissemination of our proprietary technology, processes and know-how or our trade secrets, whether by breach of a confidentiality agreement or otherwise, may cause irreparable harm to our business, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise be independently developed by our competitors or other third parties. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, processes and know-how or our trade secrets are disclosed, the value of our technology and services could be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source software closely, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by United States or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue sales of our products, or to release our software code under the terms of an open source license, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Given the nature of open source software, there is also a risk that third parties may assert copyright and other intellectual property infringement claims against us based on our use of certain open source software programs. The risks associated with intellectual property infringement claims are discussed immediately below. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or require us to obtain expensive licenses, and our business may be adversely affected. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters or other forms of communication. These claims, whether or not successful, could: • divert management’s attention; • result in costly and time-consuming litigation; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; • in the case of open source software-related claims, require us to release our software code under the terms of an open source license; or • require us to redesign our software and services to avoid infringement. As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, many of our agreements with our channel partners require us to indemnify them for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling on any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any third parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management time. Finally, if a third party successfully asserts a claim that our products infringe its proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable or at all and we may be required to pay significant monetary damages to such third party. 23 Table of Contents Providing our products to customers outside the United States exposes us to risks inherent in international business. Customers in more than 120 countries and territories currently use our email marketing product, and we expect to expand our international operations in the future. Accordingly, we are subject to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States. The risks and challenges associated with providing our products to customers outside the United States include: • localization of our products, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including tax, email marketing, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; • foreign currency fluctuations; • different pricing environments; • difficulties in staffing and maintaining foreign operations; and • regional economic and political conditions. We have incurred net losses in the past and expect to incur net losses in the future. We have incurred net losses in the past and we expect to incur net losses in the future. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $44.8 million. Our recent net losses were $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $8.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our net losses increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 because we increased our sales and marketing expense to promote the Constant Contact brand and encourage new customers to try our products. The quarter ended March 31, 2008 is the only quarter in which we generated a profit. There is no guarantee we will be profitable in the future. In addition, we expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. If our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance could be adversely affected. If our revenue does not grow to offset these increased expenses, we may not be profitable in any future period. Our recent revenue growth may not be indicative of our future performance. In future periods, we may not have any revenue growth, or our revenue could decline. We are incurring significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management has been, and will continue to be, required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a public company, we are incurring significantly more legal, accounting and other expenses than we incurred as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, require public companies to meet certain corporate governance standards. Our management and other personnel are devoting a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In order to comply with Section 404 for the year ended December 31, 2008, we have incurred substantial accounting expense and expended significant management time on compliance-related issues. In addition, we will continue to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. If in the future we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock would likely decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards in the United States may be limited. As of December 31, 2008, we had net operating loss carryforwards of $39.4 million for U.S. federal tax purposes and $15.9 million for state tax purposes. These loss carryforwards expire between 2009 and 2028. To the extent available, we intend to use these net operating loss carryforwards to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations, if any. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. While we do not believe that our secondary public offering, our initial public offering and prior financings have resulted in ownership changes that would limit our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards, any subsequent ownership changes could result in such a limitation. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited, our income could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could have a negative effect on our financial results. Our quarterly results may fluctuate and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price could decline substantially. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, and if we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Some of the important factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: • our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ requirements; • general economic conditions; • changes in our pricing policies; • our ability to expand our business; • the effectiveness of our personnel; • new product and service introductions; • technical difficulties or interruptions in our services; • the timing of additional investments in our hardware and software systems; • regulatory compliance costs; • costs associated with future acquisitions of technologies and businesses; and • extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments. Some of these factors are not within our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them may cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and may dilute your ownership of our common stock. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to: • fund our operations; • respond to competitive pressures; • take advantage of strategic opportunities, including more rapid expansion of our business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; and • develop new products or enhancements to existing products. 25 Table of Contents We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We have, from time to time, evaluated acquisition opportunities and may pursue acquisition opportunities in the future. We have not made any material acquisitions to date and, therefore, our ability as an organization to make and integrate significant acquisitions is unproven. Moreover, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • an inability to locate a suitable acquisition candidate or technology or acquire a desirable candidate or technology on favorable terms; • difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired business or acquired technology with our existing technology and products and in retaining and motivating key personnel from the business; • disruptions in our ongoing operations and the diversion of our management’s attention from their day-to-day responsibilities associated with operating our business; • increases in our expenses that adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition; • potential write-offs of acquired assets and increased amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired; and • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. In addition, any acquisition we complete may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or such an acquisition may be viewed negatively by our customers, stockholders or the financial markets. RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; • failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive products; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; 26 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • investors’ general perception of us. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market in the future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. If our existing stockholders who acquired their stock before our initial public offering sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that such existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Certain holders of our common stock have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933 or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file in the future for ourselves or other stockholders. If we register their shares of common stock, they could sell those shares in the public market. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Among other things, our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote; 27 Table of Contents • provide that vacancies on our board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, the ability to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Any future dividend payments are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 