ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this prospectus before making a decision to invest in our units. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operating may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Current Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more operating businesses or assets with a particular focus on businesses or assets involved in the refining of petroleum products, but will not be limited to pursuing acquisition opportunities only within that industry. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target business with respect to a business combination. We will not generate any revenues or income until, at the earliest, after the 18 Table of Contents consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur. We have no present revenue and will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the completion of a business combination. If we expend all of the proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust and interest income earned of up to $3.7 million (net of income taxes on such interest and State of Delaware franchise taxes) on the balance of the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking an initial business combination, but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required timeframe, in which case, we will be forced to liquidate. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we will continue in existence only until December 11, 2009 or, in the event our stockholders approve the extended period, then only until June 11, 2010. If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, our corporate existence will, in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. We may not be able to find a suitable target business within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. We view these provisions as obligations to our stockholders and our officers and directors have agreed they will not propose, or vote in favor of, any amendment to this provision other than in connection with the proposal to approve the extended period or in connection with a business combination. In addition, we will not support, directly or indirectly, or in any way endorse or recommend, that stockholders approve an amendment or modification to such provision if it does not appear we will be able to consummate a business combination within the foregoing time periods. United Refining Inc., our sponsor, has waived its rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to the shares of common stock owned by it prior to our initial public offering, including the shares of common stock underlying the warrants it owns. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of liquidation, which we currently estimate to be up to $15,000, from our remaining assets outside of the trust account. In addition, our sponsor has agreed to indemnify us for all claims of creditors to the extent that we fail to obtain valid and enforceable waivers from vendors, service providers, prospective target business or other entities in order to protect the amounts held in trust. Unlike other blank check companies, we are permitted, pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, to seek to extend the date before which we must complete an initial business combination to 30 months. As a result, your funds may be held in the trust account for up to thirty months. Unlike other blank check companies, if we have entered into a definitive agreement but anticipate that we will not be able to consummate a business combination by December 11, 2009, we shall seek to extend the date before which we must complete our business combination, to avoid being required to liquidate, to June 11, 2010 by calling a special meeting of our stockholders for the purpose of soliciting their approval for such extension. If the proposal for the extension to June 11, 2010 is approved by our stockholders, we will have an additional 6 months within which to complete our initial business combination. As a result we may be able to hold your funds in the trust account for up to 30 months from the date our initial public offering was consummated and thus delay the receipt by you of your funds from the trust account on redemption in connection with a proposed business combination or liquidation. You will not have any rights or interest in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of our liquidation or if they seek to redeem their respective shares of common stock into cash upon the approval of the extended period the stockholder voted against and the filing of an amendment to our amended and restated 19 Table of Contents certificate of incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware or upon a business combination which the stockholder voted against and which is completed by us. In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. If we are forced to liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive significantly less than $9.97 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we seek to have all vendors, target businesses, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we will perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the $9.97 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest and franchise taxes payable to the State of Delaware, which taxes shall be paid from the trust account, and any other amounts released to us described elsewhere in this prospectus), due to claims of such creditors. United Refining, Inc., our sponsor, has agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless against liabilities, claims, damages and expenses to which we may become subject as a result of any claim by any target business, prospective target business, vendor or other entity owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. We cannot assure you that our sponsor will be able to satisfy those obligations. The indemnification provisions are set forth in the insider letter executed by our sponsor in connection with our initial public offering. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Our independent directors may decide not to enforce the indemnification obligations of United Refining, Inc., our sponsor, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders upon liquidation. United Refining, Inc., our sponsor, has agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless against liabilities, claims, damages and expenses to which we may become subject as a result of any claim by any target business, prospective target business, vendor or other entity owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced and our sponsor asserts that it is unable to satisfy its obligations or that it has no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors would determine whether we would take legal action against our sponsor to enforce its indemnification obligations. While we currently expect that our independent directors would take action on our behalf against our sponsor to enforce its indemnification obligations, it is possible that our independent directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in a particular instance. If our independent directors choose not to enforce the indemnification obligations of our sponsor, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders may be reduced and the per share liquidation distribution could be less that the initial $9.97 per share. 20 Table of Contents If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate the trust account, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait the full 24 months or, if a public stockholder approves the extended period, then the full 30 months, before receiving liquidation distributions. We have 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering or, in the event our stockholders approve the extended period, we have 30 months from such date in which to complete a business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate a business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought redemption of their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete a business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units sold in our initial public offering at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless the warrants comprising the units sold in our initial public offering and the shares of common stock underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. We expect most purchasers of our warrants will hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently you are unlikely to receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. If you fail to receive notice of redemption from a third party and your warrants are redeemed for nominal value, you will not have recourse to us. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares of common stock are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the Warrant Agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares of common stock underlying our public warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. If we are not able to do so, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required 21 Table of Contents to net-cash settle any such warrant exercise and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares of common stock underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Unlike other blank check companies, we allow our public stockholders holding up to one share less than 40.0% of the shares sold in our initial public offering on a cumulative basis to exercise their redemption rights if they vote against a proposed business combination presented to stockholders for their approval. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree. When we seek stockholder approval of the extended period or a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our sponsor with respect to any shares it owned prior to the consummation of our initial public offering) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock redeemed for cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination (on a cumulative basis with the stockholders who previously exercised their redemption rights in connection with the stockholder vote required to approve the extended period, if any) and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) public stockholders owning 40.0% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering do not vote against the business combination and exercise their redemption rights on a cumulative basis with the stockholders who previously exercised their redemption rights in connection with the stockholder vote required to approve the extended period. Most other blank check companies have a redemption threshold of 20.0%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their redemption rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which you may believe is not suitable for us. Unlike other blank check companies, we allow our public stockholders holding up to one share less than 40.0% of shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering on a cumulative basis to exercise their redemption rights if they vote against a proposed business combination presented to stockholders for their approval. The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise their redemption rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. Unlike other blank check offerings which have a 20.0% threshold, we allow our public stockholders holding up to one share less than 40.0% of the shares sold in our initial public offering to exercise their redemption rights (on a cumulative basis with the stockholders who previously exercised their redemption rights in connection with the stockholder vote required to approve the extended period, if any). However, we still must acquire a business or assets with a fair market value equal to at least 80.0% of our net assets held in the trust account (exclusive of the underwriters’ deferred underwriting compensation plus interest accrued thereon held, net of taxes payable, in the trust account). Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. 22 Table of Contents Exercise of redemption rights must be effected pursuant to a specific process which may take time to complete and may result in the expenditure of funds by stockholders seeking redemption. A stockholder requesting redemption of his, her or its shares of common stock for cash may do so at any time after the mailing to our stockholders of the proxy statement and prior to the vote taken with respect to a proposal to approve the extended period or a proposed business combination. A stockholder would have from the time we send out our proxy statement through the vote on a proposal to approve the extended period or the business combination to tender (either electronically or through the delivery of physical stock certificates) his shares of common stock if he, she or it wishes to seek to exercise his, her or its redemption rights, a period which is expected to be not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days. There is a nominal cost associated with the above-referenced tendering process and the act of certificating the shares or delivering them through the DWAC system. The transfer agent will typically charge the tendering broker $35.00 and it would be up to the broker whether or not to pass this cost on to the redeeming holder. There may be additional mailing and other nominal charges depending on the particular process used to tender common stock. Although we believe the time period, costs and other potential burdens associated with the tendering process are not onerous for an average investor, this process may result in additional burdens for stockholders, including mis-delivery or any other defect in the tendering process. Additionally, if a vote on our initial business combination is held and the business combination is not approved, we may continue to try to consummate a business combination with a different target until twenty four months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering or until thirty months from such date in the event our stockholders approve the extended period. If the extended period or the initial business combination is not approved or completed for any reason, public stockholders voting against such extended period or our initial business combination, as the case may be, who exercised their redemption rights would not be entitled to redeem their shares of common stock into a pro rata share of the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account. In such case, if we have required public stockholders to tender their certificates prior to the meeting, we will promptly return such certificates to the tendering public stockholder. In such case, they would then have to comply with the tendering process again for any vote against a subsequent business combination. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering (or by 30 months from such date in the event our stockholders approve the extended period). If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection therewith, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust account to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of 23 Table of Contents distributions received by them and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. In the event of our liquidation, we may have to adopt a plan to provide for the payment of claims that may potentially be brought against us, which could result in the per-share liquidation amount to our stockholders being significantly less than $9.97. In certain circumstances, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after the termination of our existence by operation of law, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being placed in the trust account together with interest earned on the trust account available to us are insufficient to allow us to operate for at least until December 11, 2009 (or June 11, 2010 in the event our stockholders approve the extended period), we may not be able to complete a business combination. We currently believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account, together with up to $3,700,000 of interest earned on the trust account that may be released to us will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least until December 11, 2009 (or June 11, 2010 in the event our stockholders approve the extended period), assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. Based upon the experience of the members of our board and consultation with them regarding a reasonable budget for consummating a transaction of this kind and nature, and a review of budgets publicly disclosed by blank-check companies, we determined that this was an appropriate approximation of the expenses. If costs are higher than expected we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, any potential target businesses. In such event, we would need to obtain additional funds from our initial stockholder or another source to continue operating. We could use a portion of these funds to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential business combination or to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of these funds as a down payment, “reverse break-up fee” (a provision in a merger agreement designed to compensate the target for any breach by the buyer which results in a failure to close the transaction), or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination. If we entered into such a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise) or if we agree to a reverse break-up fee and subsequently were required to pay such fee as a result of our breach of the merger agreement, we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to any other potential target businesses. In such event, we would need to obtain additional funds from our initial stockholders or another source to continue operations. Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination. Upon consummation of a business combination, the role of our existing officers and directors in the target business cannot presently be fully ascertained. While it is possible that one or more of our existing officers and 24 Table of Contents directors will remain in senior management or as directors following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. If we acquire a target business in an all cash transaction, it would be more likely that our existing officers and our directors would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company, following a business combination, it may be less likely that our existing officers or directors would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. Negotiated retention of officers and directors after a business combination may create a conflict of interest. If, as a condition to a potential business combination, our existing officers negotiate to be retained after the consummation of the business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. The ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that our existing officers and directors remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business combination. Although we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, holding and disposition of target companies and assets. We may incur significant taxes in connection with effecting acquisitions; holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets; and disposing of target companies and assets. Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination will be required to provide our stockholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles, the pool of prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with the requirements of United States federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP, and audited in accordance with the Standards of the PCAOB, a likely possibility if we consider a business combination with a proposed target business operating in the international energy industry, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses. We may consummate a business combination with a company in the energy industry, with a particular focus on businesses or assets involved in the refining of petroleum products, but will not be limited to pursuing acquisition opportunities only within that industry. As we have not currently selected any target business with which to complete a business combination, our stockholders are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry to target business’ operations. We may consummate a business combination with a company in the energy industry, with a particular focus on businesses or assets involved in the refining of petroleum products, but will not be limited to pursing acquisition opportunities only within that industry. We may also pursue opportunities in other industries involving businesses outside of management’s expertise. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or 25 Table of Contents risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately consummate a business combination. As we have not yet identified a prospective target business, our stockholders have no current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’ operations until we provide proxy materials to our stockholders in connection with a proposed business combination. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to our stockholders than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, including numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. We have and we expect to continue to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies, and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the type of businesses that we may intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies operating in or providing services to the energy industry. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, than we do and our financial resources are relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous target businesses that we could potentially acquire, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable is limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Also, our obligation to redeem for cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We cannot assure you we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. We may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon consummation of our initial public offering including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as entitlement to all the interest earned on the funds deposited in the trust account. Because we are not subject to these rules, including Rule 419, our units were immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances than we would if we were subject to such rule. Since we have not yet selected any target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations and investors will be relying on management’s ability to source business transactions. Because we have not yet identified a prospective target business, our stockholders currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business. Although our management will evaluate the risks 26 Table of Contents inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that they will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a target business. Except for the limitation that a target business have a fair market value of at least 80.0% of our net assets held in the trust account (exclusive of the underwriters’ deferred underwriting compensation plus interest thereon, net of taxes payable, held in the trust account) at the time of the acquisition, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. Our stockholders are relying on management’s ability to source business transactions, evaluate their merits, conduct or monitor diligence and conduct negotiations. We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 150,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. There are 30,650,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no current commitment, we are likely to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to the holders of our common stock; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely will also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we have no current commitments to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to complete a business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; • covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, to acquire capital assets or make additional acquisitions; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. 27 Table of Contents We may enter into joint venture arrangements, which are risky since our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on a co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturer’s. We may co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a target business, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In such circumstances, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding a target business, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become insolvent or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. In addition, we would face additional risks, including the additional costs and time required to investigate and otherwise conduct due diligence on potential joint venture partners and to negotiate joint venture agreements. Moreover, the subsequent management and control of a joint venture would entail risks associated with multiple owners and decisions makers. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting assets owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. We may also, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. For example, in the future we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a partnership, joint venture or other entity. Such a guarantee may be on a joint and several basis with our partner or co-venturer in which case we may be liable in the event such party defaults on its guaranty obligation. Our officers and directors allocate their time to other businesses and ventures, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. These conflicts could impair our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses and ventures. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors, including acting as executive officers of our corporate shareholder, and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. In addition to his business activities, Mr. Catsimatidis is also involved, and may increase his involvement, in various charitable, civic and political activities, including his considering whether to become a possible candidate for the mayor of New York City in November 2009. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs and ventures, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and ventures and could impair our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers, directors and their affiliates currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with, entities engaged in business activities that are similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our officers, directors or their affiliates has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, all of our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with, additional entities, including other refining entities, that are engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. In particular, John A. Catsimatidis, Myron Turfitt, James E. Murphy and John Wagner are the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel and Secretary, respectively, of our sponsor, United Refining, Inc. Due to these 28 Table of Contents existing affiliations, they and our other directors may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter is totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including our officers, directors and others who may not continue with us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Our key personnel are also officers, directors, and/or members of other entities, to whom we have access on an as needed basis, although there are no assurances that any such personnel will be able to devote either sufficient time, effort or attention to us when we need it. None of our key personnel, including our executive officers have entered into employment or consultant agreements with us. Further, although we presently anticipate that our officers will remain associated in senior management, advisory or other positions with us following a business combination, some or all of the management associated with a target business may also remain in place. As such, our key personnel may not continue to provide services to us after the consummation of a business combination if we are unable to negotiate employment or consulting agreements with them in connection with or subsequent to the business combination, the terms of which would be determined at such time between the respective parties. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the business combination. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated with our existing stockholder, directors or officers, which may raise potential conflicts. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) with United Refining, Inc., our sponsor, directors or officers, which may raise potential conflicts. Also, the completion of a business combination between us and an entity owned by a business in which one of our directors or officers may have an interest could enhance their prospects for future business from such client. To minimize potential conflicts of interest, we have agreed not to consummate a business combination with an entity that is affiliated with our sponsor unless we obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that is a member of the FINRA and is reasonably acceptable to the representative of the underwriters of our initial public offering that the business combination is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view. Our sponsor currently owns shares of our common stock and warrants, which will not participate in the liquidation of the trust account and a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. United Refining, Inc., our sponsor, has waived its right to receive distributions with respect to those shares of common stock upon the liquidation of the trust account if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Additionally, our sponsor purchased 15,600,000 warrants directly from us in a private placement transaction prior to the consummation of our initial public offering at a purchase price of $1.00 per warrant for a total purchase price of $15,600,000. Finally, our sponsor was granted 2,500,000 warrants to purchase our common stock at $12.50 per share. The shares of common stock acquired prior to our initial public offering and any warrants owned by our sponsor will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and our directors, who control and own our sponsor, may influence 29 Table of Contents their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our officers’ discretion, and the discretion of our directors, in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest and as a result of such conflicts management may choose a target business that is not in the best interests of our stockholders. Since our sponsor will lose its entire investment in us if a business combination is not consummated and may be required to pay costs associated with our liquidation, it may purchase shares of our common stock from stockholders who would otherwise choose to vote against the extended period or a proposed business combination and exercise their redemption rights in connection with such proposal to approve the extended period or proposed business combination. United Refining, Inc., our sponsor owns shares of our common stock (which were purchased for an aggregate of $25,000) that will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. In addition, our sponsor purchased warrants exercisable for our common stock (for an aggregate of $15,600,000) and was granted 2,500,000 warrants to purchase our common stock at $12.50 per share, which will also be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. Given the interest that our sponsor has in a business combination being consummated, it is possible that our sponsor will acquire securities from public stockholders (in the open market and/or in privately negotiated transactions) who have elected to redeem their shares of our common stock in order to change their vote and insure that the extended period and/or the business combination will be approved (which could result in the extended period or a business combination being approved even if, after the announcement of the proposal to approve the extended period or the business combination, 40.0% or more of our public stockholders would have elected to exercise their redemption rights on a cumulative basis, or more than 50.0% of our public stockholders would have voted against the proposal to approve the extended period or the business combination, but for the purchases made by our existing stockholder). Any privately negotiated transaction with a stockholder would include a contractual acknowledgement that such stockholder, although still the record holder of our common stock, is no longer the beneficial owner thereof and therefore agrees to vote such shares of common stock as directed by our sponsor. In the event our sponsor purchases shares in privately negotiated transactions from public stockholders who have already cast votes against a proposal to approve the extended period or a proposed business acquisition and requested redemption of their shares, such selling stockholders would be required to revoke their prior votes against the proposal to approve the extended period or the proposed acquisition and to revoke their prior elections to redeem their shares and to cast new votes in favor of the proposal to approve the extended period or the proposed acquisition. The revocation of prior negative votes and substitution therefor of votes in favor of the proposal to approve the extended period or the proposed acquisition would have the effect of reducing redemptions and increasing votes in favor of the extended period or proposed acquisition, as the case may be, thereby making it more likely that the extended period and/or a proposed business combination would be approved. The requirement that we complete a business combination by December 11, 2009 or June 11, 2010 in the event our stockholders approve the extended period may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business combination. We will liquidate and promptly distribute only to our public stockholders the amount in our trust account (subject to our obligations under Delaware law for claims of creditors) plus any remaining net assets if we do not effect a business combination by December 11, 2009 or June 11, 2010 in the event our stockholders approve the extended period. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business combination will be aware of this requirement. Consequently, such target businesses may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business combination, knowing that if we do not complete a business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete a business combination with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the time limits referenced above. 30 Table of Contents The requirement that we complete a business combination by December 11, 2009 or June 11, 2010 in the event our stockholders approve the extended period may motivate our officers and directors to approve a business combination during that time period so that they may get their out-of-pocket expenses reimbursed. Each of our officers and directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by him in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations. The funds for such reimbursement are provided from the money not held in trust. In the event that we do not effect a business combination by December 11, 2009 or June 11, 2010 in the event our stockholders approve the extended period, then any expenses incurred by such individuals in excess of the money held outside of the trust account will not be repaid as we will liquidate at such time. On the other hand, if we complete a business combination within such time period, those expenses will be repaid by the target business. Consequently, our officers, who are also our directors, may have an incentive to complete a business combination other than just what is in the best interest of our stockholders. None of our officers or directors, or any of their affiliates, has ever been associated with a blank check company and such lack of experience could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. None of our officers or directors, or any of their affiliates, has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team to identify and complete a business combination. Our management’s lack of experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and could result in our having to liquidate our trust account. If we liquidate, our public stockholders could receive less than the amount they paid for our securities, causing them to incur significant financial losses. Other than with respect to the business combination, our officers, directors, securityholders and their respective affiliates may have a pecuniary interest in certain transactions in which we are involved, and may also compete with us. Other than with respect to the business combination, we have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, securityholders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Initially, we may only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single asset or property. We currently have no restrictions on our ability to seek additional funds through the sale of securities or through loans. As a consequence, we could seek to acquire a target business that has a fair market value significantly in excess of 80.0% of our net assets held in the trust account (exclusive of the underwriters’ deferred underwriting compensation plus interest thereon, net of taxes payable, held in the trust account) at the time of the acquisition. Although we have not entered into any agreements with any third party regarding any such potential financing transactions, we could seek to fund such a business combination by raising additional funds through the sale of our securities or through loan arrangements. However, if we were to seek such additional funds, any such arrangement would only be consummated simultaneously with our consummation of a business combination. Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time. However, should our management elect to pursue more than one acquisition of target businesses simultaneously, our management could encounter difficulties in consummating all or a portion of such acquisitions due to a lack of adequate resources, including the inability of management to 31 Table of Contents devote sufficient time to the due diligence, negotiation and documentation of each acquisition. Furthermore, even if we complete the acquisition of more than one target business at substantially the same time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate the operations of such target businesses. Accordingly, the prospects for our ability to effect our business strategy may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Furthermore, since our business combination may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or operating businesses at the same time and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their assets or businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the amount held in our trust account will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, because we have not yet identified a prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the funds held in our trust account prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in the course of searching for a suitable target business that we can afford to acquire, or the obligation to redeem for cash a significant number of shares of common stock from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not in the trust account to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to such payment or otherwise), we may not have a sufficient amount of working capital available outside of the trust account to conduct due diligence and pay other expenses related to finding a suitable business combination without securing additional financing. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would liquidate the trust account. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund continuing operations and/or growth. The failure to secure additional financing if required could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to develop and grow, even if we consummate a business combination. Neither our sponsor nor any of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our sponsor controls a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our sponsor owns 20.0% of our issued and outstanding common stock. This ownership interest, together with any other acquisitions of our shares of common stock (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow our sponsor to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. The interests of our sponsor and your interests may not always align and taking actions which require approval of a majority of our stockholders, such as selling the company, may be more difficult to accomplish. 32 Table of Contents We could be liable for up to the amount of the purchase price of the insider warrants plus interest to our sponsor who purchased the insider warrants in a private placement conducted concurrently with our initial public offering. We sold in a private placement occurring immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering 15,600,000 insider warrants to our sponsor. This private placement is being made in reliance on an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. This exemption requires that there be no general solicitation of investors with respect to the sales of the insider warrants. If our initial public offering were deemed to be a general solicitation with respect to the insider warrants, the offer and sale of such securities would not be exempt from registration and the purchaser of those securities could have a right to rescind its purchases. A rescinding purchaser could seek to recover the purchase price paid, with interest, or if it no longer owns the securities, to receive damages. The insider warrants purchase agreement contains provisions under which the purchaser waives any and all rights to assert present or future claims, including the right of rescission, against us with respect to its purchase of the insider warrants and agrees to indemnify and hold us and the underwriters harmless from all losses, damages or expenses that relate to claims or proceedings brought against us or the underwriters by the purchaser of the insider warrants, although it is unclear whether these waivers and indemnifications would be enforceable. If we redeem our public warrants, the insider warrants, which are non redeemable, could provide our sponsor with the ability to realize a larger gain than the public warrant holders. The warrants held by our public warrant holders may be called for redemption at any time after the warrants become exercisable: • in whole and not in part, • at a price of $0.01 per warrant at any time after the warrants become exercisable, • upon not less than 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, and • if, and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants (including those warrants to be sold to our sponsor in a private placement prior to our initial public offering if such warrants are held by our sponsor or it’s designees) unless the warrants comprising the units sold in our initial public offering and the shares of common stock underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. As a result of the insider warrants not being subject to the redemption features that our publicly-held warrants are subject to, holders of the insider warrants, or their permitted transferees, could realize a larger gain than our public warrant holders in the event we redeem our public warrants. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We issued warrants to purchase up to 45,000,000 shares of common stock as part of our initial public offering. In addition, we (a) sold to the sponsor warrants to purchase up to 15,600,000 shares of common stock immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering and (b) granted to our sponsor warrants to purchase up to 2,500,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares of common stock issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the 33 Table of Contents target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. The NYSE Alternext US may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to transact in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our units, common stock and warrants are listed on the NYSE Alternext US. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the NYSE Alternext US. Additionally, it is likely that the NYSE Alternext US would require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements, at the time of our initial business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the NYSE Alternext US delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences, including: • a limited availability for market quotations for our securities; • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. In addition, we would no longer be subject to NYSE Alternext US rules, including rules requiring us to have a certain number of independent directors and to meet other corporate governance standards. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If our common stock becomes subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. If at any time our securities are no longer listed on a national securities exchange, including the NYSE Alternext US, or the Nasdaq Stock Market or we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock will be subject to these “penny stock” rules. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. 34 Table of Contents If our sponsor exercises its registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of the registration rights and the purchase option may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our sponsor is entitled to require us to register the resale of its shares of common stock at any time after the date on which its shares of common stock are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before the earlier of one year from the consummation of a business combination or three years from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering. If our existing stockholder exercises its registration rights with respect to all of its shares of common stock beneficially owned by it, then there will be an additional 11,250,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. Further, the sponsor purchased in a private placement 15,600,000 insider warrants that are identical to the warrants sold in our initial public offering, except that (i) the insider warrants have no claim to the funds held in the trust account, (ii) the insider warrants are being purchased pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and will become freely tradable only after they are registered pursuant to a registration rights agreement, (iii) the insider warrants are nonredeemable so long as they are held by our sponsor or its permitted assigns and (iv) the insider warrants are exercisable (a) on a “cashless” basis at any time after they become exercisable, if held by our sponsor or its permitted assigns and (b) in the absence of an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock underlying the warrants. If all of the insider warrants are exercised, there will be an additional 15,600,000 shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. In addition, we have granted to our sponsor 2,500,000 warrants to purchase up to a total of 2,500,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $12.50 per share. The warrants grant holders demand and “piggyback” registration rights for periods of five and seven years, respectively, from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering. If all of the warrants are exercised, there will be an additional 2,500,000 shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional numbers of securities eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, or we may be required to incur additional expenses if we are unable to liquidate after the expiration of the allotted time periods. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our principal activities subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. To this end, the proceeds held in the trust account are invested by the trust account agent only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 35 Table of Contents 1940 with a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are deemed to be an investment company at any time, we will be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which would require additional expenses for which we have not budgeted. Uncertainties in management’s assessment of a target business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. It is possible that, following our initial acquisition, uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental liabilities) of, acquisition or other transaction candidates could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. The potential loss of key customers, management and employees of a target business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. It is possible that, following our initial acquisition, the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. The lack of synergy from an acquisition could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. It is possible that, following our initial acquisition, the inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. We may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm as to the fair market value of the target business or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm that either the target business we select has a fair market value in excess of 80.0% of our net assets held in the trust account (exclusive of the underwriters’ deferred underwriting compensation plus interest thereon, net of taxes payable, held in the trust account) at the time of the acquisition or that the price we are paying is fair to stockholders unless (i) our board is not able to independently determine that a target business has a sufficient market value or (ii) there is a conflict of interest with respect to the transaction. The fair market value of such business will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book value, and the price for which comparable businesses have recently been sold. If our board is not able to independently determine whether the target business has a sufficient fair market value, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of FINRA with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment or our board of directors. Even if such opinion is obtained, stockholders may not be permitted to rely on such opinion. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at a given annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors may be considered for election. Since 36 Table of Contents our “staggered board” may prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any given annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Moreover, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Uninsured claims and litigation could adversely impact our operating results. After a business combination, we expect to have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available, but no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. This insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. The insurance does not cover damages from breach of contract by us or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. Insurance and customer agreements do not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. We may re-incorporate in another jurisdiction in connection with a business combination, and the laws of such jurisdiction will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. In connection with a business combination, we may relocate the home jurisdiction of our business from Delaware to another jurisdiction. If we determine to do this, the laws of such jurisdiction would likely govern all of our material agreements. We cannot assure you that the system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction would be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Any such reincorporation and the international nature of the energy industry will likely subject us to foreign regulation. Risks Related to Our Target Businesses The energy industry is highly competitive. There is intense competition in the energy industry, including in the petroleum refining, distribution, marketing and related industries. Fully integrated companies engaged on a national and international basis compete in many segments of the energy industry, on scales that may be much larger than ours. Large oil companies, because of the diversity and integration of their operations, larger capitalization and greater resources, may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, compete on the basis of price, and more readily obtain crude oil and feedstocks in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of the energy industry. The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products depends upon many factors that are beyond our control and could adversely affect our profitability. If we consummate a business combination with a target company in the business of refining crude oil, we anticipate that our earnings, profitability and cash flows will depend on the margin above fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil. Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including: • changes in global and local economic conditions; 37 Table of Contents • demand for fuel products, especially in the United States, China and India; • U.S. government regulations; • worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil-producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Venezuela; • terrorist attacks; • utilization rates of U.S. refineries; • the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products; • development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels; and • local factors, including market conditions, weather conditions and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our markets. A large, rapid increase in crude oil prices could adversely affect our operating margins if the increased cost of raw materials could not be passed to our customers on a timely basis, and would adversely affect our sales volumes if consumption of refined products, particularly transportation fuels, were to decline as a result of such price increases. The prices which we may obtain for refined products are also affected by regional factors, such as local market conditions and the operations of competing refiners of petroleum products, as well as seasonal factors influencing demand for such products. If our expectations about trends in the prices of crude oil relative to refined products are inaccurate, our ability to implement our business plan profitably could be negatively affected. If we consummate a business combination with a target company in the business of refining crude oil, we may be adversely affected by the price differential between crude oil and refined products, which is referred to as the crack spread. The crack spread has been widening above historical levels since 2000, partly due to relatively high demand for refined products and limited refining capacity. We will evaluate opportunities in the energy industry, and in particular in the refining sector, based in part on our expectations regarding trends in the price of crude oil relative to the price of refined products. Should our expectations about these trends be inaccurate, our ability to implement our business plan could be negatively affected. If the price differential between heavy, sour crude oil and light, sweet crude oil returns to historical levels, our ability to implement our business plan could be negatively affected. If we consummate a business combination with a target company in the business of refining crude oil, our business may be adversely affected by differences between heavy, sour crude oils and light, sweet crude oils. Heavy, sour crude oils generally provide more profitable refining margins than light, sweet crude oils. Since 2000, the price differential between light, sweet crude oil and heavy, sour crude oil has been widening from historical levels due to the relatively high demand for light crude oil and an increased supply of heavy crude oil. We believe that this widening is part of a fundamental shift in both the light/heavy and sweet/sour differentials, and that these differentials are likely to remain above levels seen prior to 2000 because of increased global production of heavier, higher-sulfur crude oil combined with the fact that the industry does not have adequate refining capacity capable of processing these heavier, higher-sulfur crude oils. However, should actual price trends differ and light/heavy and sweet/sour differentials revert to levels observed prior to 2000, our ability to take advantage of this trend could be negatively affected. Significant declines in the price of crude oil may disrupt the supply of heavy, sour crude oil and cause a narrowing of the price differentials between heavy, sour crude oil and light, sweet crude oil. If we consummate a business combination with a target company in the business of refining crude oil, our business may be adversely affected by the increased costs of extracting heavy, sour crude oil and a disruption of 38 Table of Contents this supply. Heavy, sour crude oil is generally costlier to extract and process than light, sweet crude oil. Significant declines in the overall price of crude oil could disrupt the supply of certain heavy, sour crude oils should the price declines be large enough that continuing to produce those heavy, sour crude oils becomes unprofitable. In addition, any resulting scarcity of supply of certain types of heavy, sour crudes could cause light/heavy and sweet/sour differentials to narrow. If we effect a business combination with a target whose operations are dependent on access to heavy, sour crudes, such a disruption could negatively affect our business. If adequate infrastructure does not exist or is not built to provide us access to heavy, sour crude oil, our ability to effect a business combination in the energy industry could be negatively affected. If we consummate a business combination with a target company in the oil refining or a related industry, the profitability of any business we acquire may be dependent upon the availability of existing or future infrastructure providing uninterrupted access to supplies of heavy, sour crude oil. This could include, but is not limited to, existing and proposed pipelines for the conveyance of heavy crude oils between producing areas globally. Furthermore, if infrastructure were proposed that would provide our facilities with access to heavy, sour crude oil, we might choose to upgrade or expand our facilities in order to process or otherwise use this heavy crude oil. If a subsequent delay or a failure to build the proposed infrastructure then prevented us from obtaining adequate supplies of heavy crude oil, our ability to implement our business plan could be negatively affected. We may be subject to interruptions of supply as a result of relying on pipelines for transportation of crude oil and refined products. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target business in the energy industry, our business may rely heavily on pipelines to receive and transport crude oil and refined products. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving and transporting crude oil and refined products if operation of these pipelines is disrupted because of accidents, natural disasters, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third-party action or other events beyond our control. Our prolonged inability to use any of the pipelines that transport crude oil or refined products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the nature of our business or our business plan may require that we upgrade or supplement inbound pipelines, which could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures. If we were to acquire refining assets or a company with agreements to purchase refining assets, it is highly unlikely that the proxy materials provided to our stockholders would include historical financial statements and, accordingly, investors will not have historical financial statements on which to rely in making their decision whether to vote for the acquisition. If we were to acquire refining assets or a company with agreements to purchase refining assets, it is highly unlikely that the proxy statement we would send to stockholders would, unless otherwise required by applicable law or regulations, contain historical financial statements with respect to the operation of the assets. Although we would provide such historical financial statements if required by applicable law or regulations, such historical financial statements are not often required. Instead, the proxy statement we would send to our stockholders would contain the same information that would typically be provided in the prospectus for an initial public offering of a start-up energy company, such as: (i) historical and prevailing market rates for refining assets on the basis of type, age and proposed employment; (ii) our expectations of future market trends and proposed strategy for employment of the refining assets; (iii) our anticipated operational (overhead) expenses; and (iv) the valuation of the refining assets generally (i.e., whether they are new buildings and the type of refining asset), all of which, in turn, depend on the sector of the energy industry in which we consummate a business combination. Thus, you would not necessary be able to rely on historical financial statements when deciding whether to approve a business combination involving the acquisition of refining assets or a company with agreements to purchase refining assets. 39 Table of Contents To the extent our business combination consists of the acquisition of assets that do not have historical financial information, we will determine whether such business combination has a fair market value of at least 80.0% of our net assets held in the trust account (exclusive of the underwriters’ deferred underwriting compensation plus interest thereon, net of taxes payable, held in the trust account) at the time of such acquisition based on the value of the assets, as determined by the advice of our advisors consistent with industry practice. Such valuation will factor in, among other things, the revenue stream generated from ongoing operations and analysis of recent public transactions providing valuation criteria based on the Nelson Complexity Index and/or valuation based on dollar value per barrel of crude thruput capacity. Our profitability may be limited if we cannot obtain necessary permits and authorizations to modify our purchased assets. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target company in the business of refining crude oil, our profitability may be linked to our ability to upgrade the refinery to process a heavier, higher-sulfur content crude oil or to yield lighter, higher-margin products. Our profitability also may be dependent on our ability to expand the capacity of the refinery. If we are unable to obtain the necessary permits and authorizations to effect an upgrade or expansion, or if the costs of making changes to or obtaining these permits or authorizations exceed our estimates, our profitability could be negatively affected. The profitability of the target business we acquire may be limited if we cannot secure an engineering, procurement and construction (“EPC”) contractor to perform upgrades or expansions. The profitability of the target business we acquire may be linked to our ability to upgrade and expand its business. In order to implement an upgrade or expansion, we expect to hire an EPC contractor. Due to a recent surge in construction projects across the energy industry, we may experience difficulties in securing an EPC contractor in a timely fashion to execute our proposed projects. If we are unable to contract an EPC contractor to effect an upgrade or expansion in a timely fashion, our profitability could be negatively affected. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target business in the refining industry, we may experience difficulties in marketing some of our products. Our ability to market the products of a target business we acquire may depend on: • obtaining the financing necessary to develop our feedstock, such as crude oil, to the point where production is suitable for sale; • the proximity, capacity and cost of pipelines and other facilities for the transportation of crude oil and refined products; • the quantity and quality of the refined products produced; and • the availability of viable purchasers willing to buy our refined products. If we experienced a catastrophic loss and our insurance was not adequate to cover such loss, it could have a material adverse affect on our operations. If we consummate our initial business combination and acquire ownership and operation of refineries or related storage and other facilities, our business could be affected by a number of risks, including mechanical failure, personal injury, loss or damage, business interruption due to political conditions in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, adverse weather conditions and catastrophic disasters, including environmental accidents. All of these risks could result in liability, loss of revenues, increased costs and loss of reputation. We intend to maintain insurance, consistent with industry standards, against these risks on business assets we may acquire upon completion of our initial business combination. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately insure against all risks, that any particular claim will be paid out of our insurance, or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Our insurers will 40 Table of Contents also require us to pay certain deductible amounts, before they will pay claims, and insurance policies will contain limitations and exclusions, which, although we believe will be standard for the refining industry, may nevertheless increase our costs and lower our profitability. Additionally, any changes to environmental and other regulations or changes in the insurance market may also result in increased costs for, or decreased availability of, insurance we would currently anticipate purchasing against the risks of environmental damage, pollution and other claims for damages that may be asserted against us. Our inability to obtain insurance sufficient to cover potential claims or the failure of insurers to pay any significant claims, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and operations. The dangers inherent in the refining and marketing of petroleum products could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities. Businesses involved in the refining, distribution and marketing of petroleum products and related activities are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products and refined products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • natural disasters, fires, or explosions; • spills and pipeline ruptures; • third-party interference; • disruptions of electricity deliveries; and • mechanical failure of equipment at our refinery or third-party facilities. Any of the foregoing could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our property and the property of others. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in the ordinary course of operations and following unforeseen events. We may have environmental liabilities as a result of our ownership or operation of contaminated properties or relating to exposure to hazardous or toxic materials. We could be subject to claims and may incur costs arising out of human exposure to hazardous or toxic substances relating to our operations, our properties, our buildings or to the sale, distribution or disposal of any products containing any hazardous or toxic substances and produced in connection with our business. Properties or facilities owned, leased or operated in conjunction with the energy industry may be contaminated due to energy or other historical industrial uses at or near the property. Regulators may impose clean-up obligations if contamination is identified on a property, and third parties or regulators may make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries, property damage or natural resource damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. Even if the business we purchase did not cause the contamination or release, certain environmental laws hold current and previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination regardless of whether they knew of or were responsible for the contamination. These environmental laws also may impose liability on any person who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is or was ever owned or operated by such person. Finally, it is possible that a target business we purchase may have historical liabilities relating to previous operations or the previous ownership of real property or facilities. While we may be able to structure a transaction to leave those types of liabilities with the seller, it may not be possible to do so as a legal or practical matter. As a result, we may ultimately have liability for environmental matters that do not relate to businesses we operate. 41 Table of Contents We will be subject to significant environmental, safety and other governmental regulations and may incur significant costs to comply with these regulations. The oil refining, distribution and marketing industry and related activities are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent environmental protection, safety and other related foreign, federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and treaties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all laws, rules, regulations and treaties following a business combination. If we are unable to adhere to these requirements, or if we are unable to obtain or maintain compliance with our environmental permits we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties and fines and to material restrictions on our business and operations. The costs of complying with these requirements and any adverse operational impact of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and operations. Certain segments of the energy industry are also subject to the payment of royalties, and the level of taxation of the energy industry tends to be high compared with that of other commercial activities. Hazards inherent in refining operations will require continual oversight and control. If we consummate our initial business combination, we may be engaged in transporting and refining potentially toxic materials in the course of our business. There is a risk of leaks or spillages of crude oil, petroleum products and other potentially hazardous materials at operating sites and during transportation. If operational risks materialized, it could result in loss of life, damage to the environment or loss of production. We will attempt to conduct our activities in such a manner that there is no or minimal damage to the environment. However, these risks will require continual oversight and control. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for crude oil and refined products. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for crude oil and refined petroleum products. We cannot predict when or whether there will be any change in demand for these products, and any major changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to address any perceived trade-off between the increasing demand for global access to energy and the protection or improvement of the natural environment. If the increasing demand for alternative fuels lowers the demand for transportation fuels, our profitability could be negatively affected. Rising crude oil and refined products prices are increasing the economic feasibility and demand for alternative fuels like ethanol and bio-diesel. New technologies are being developed to further increase the feasibility and enhance the performance of these fuels. Additionally, energy security concerns, agricultural interests, environmental activists, and others are increasing the visibility of alternative fuels as a substitute for transportation fuels. Should these trends continue and the demand for alternative fuels continue to rise, consequently lowering the demand for petroleum-based transportation fuels, our profitability could be negatively affected. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. Crude oil prices are generally set in U.S. dollars while sales of refined products may be in a variety of currencies. If we consummate a business combination with a target business with operations outside of the United States, our business will be subject to risks of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In certain markets, we may also experience difficulty in converting local currencies to U.S. dollars, or the market for redemption of local currency into other currencies may deteriorate or cease to exist. In addition, a target business with which we combine may do business and generate sales within other countries. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is 42 Table of Contents also possible that some or all of our operating expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Following our initial business combination, we may engage in hedging transactions in an attempt to mitigate exposure to price fluctuations in oil and other petroleum products; these attempts may not be successful. Following our initial business combination, we may engage in short sales and utilize derivative instruments such as options, futures, forward contracts, interest rate swaps, caps and floors, to hedge against exposure to fluctuations in the price of crude oil, refined petroleum products and other energy portfolio positions, as well as foreign currency exchange and interest rates. Hedging transactions may not be as effective as we intend in reducing our exposure to these fluctuations and any resulting volatility in our cash flows, and if we incorrectly assess market trends and risks, may result in a poorer overall performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. Compliance with governmental regulations and changes in laws and regulations and risks from investigations and legal proceedings could be costly and could adversely affect operating results. The oil industry is subject to regulation and intervention by governments throughout the world in such matters as exploration and production interests, environmental protection controls, controls over the development and decommissioning of a field (including restrictions on production) and, possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or non-renewal of contract rights. The oil and gas industry is also subject to the payment of royalties and taxation, which tend to be high compared with those payable in respect of other commercial activities and operates in certain tax jurisdictions which have a degree of uncertainty relating to the interpretation of, and changes to, tax law. As a result of new laws and regulations or other factors, we could be required to curtail or cease certain operations. A target business’ operations in the U.S. and internationally can be impacted by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we could operate, as well as the outcome of ongoing government and internal investigations and legal proceedings. Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulation, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of the existing legal rules and regulations. In particular, changes in export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries identified by management for immediate focus. Changes that impact the business environment include changes in accounting standards, changes in environmental laws, changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of audits by various tax authorities, and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards and tax credits. Compliance related issues could limit our ability to do business in certain countries. These changes could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries. Demand for refining services is expected to be substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the oil industry. A substantial or an extended decline in oil prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil industry and reduce our revenue. Demand for refining services is expected to be substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of crude oil reserves, which are sensitive to oil prices and generally dependent on the industry’s view of future oil prices. Oil prices have historically been volatile and are affected by numerous factors, including: • demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide population growth and general economic and business conditions; 43 Table of Contents • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels for oil; • oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries; • political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; • the level of worldwide oil exploration and production activity; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • weather conditions. Fluctuations in oil prices could adversely affect refining activity and our revenues, cash flows and profitability. Upon consummation of a business combination, it is likely that our operations will be materially dependent upon the level of activity in oil production. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil prices affect the level of such activity. Oil prices and, therefore, the level of refining activity can be volatile. Worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil. Weather conditions, governmental regulation (both in the United States and elsewhere), levels of consumer demand, the availability of pipeline capacity and other factors beyond our control may also affect the supply of and demand for refined petroleum products. Fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. This would likely result in a corresponding decline in the demand for refining services and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and profitability if we consummate a business combination in that sector. Lower oil prices could also cause our potential customers to seek to terminate, renegotiate or fail to honor our contracts; affect the fair market value of any refining assets we may acquire which in turn could trigger a writedown for accounting purposes; affect our ability to retain skilled personnel which may be employees of any acquisition candidate; and affect our ability to obtain access to capital to finance and grow our businesses. There can be no assurances as to the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and refinery services industries. Excess production capacity and lower future demand could adversely impact a target business’ results of operations. We believe oil storage inventory levels are an indicator of the relative balance between supply and demand. High or increasing storage or inventories generally indicate that supply is exceeding demand and that energy prices are likely to soften. Low or decreasing storage or inventories are an indicator that demand is growing faster than supply and that energy prices are likely to rise. Measures of maximum production capacity compared to demand (excess production capacity) are also an important factor influencing energy prices and spending by oil and natural gas exploration companies. When excess production capacity is low compared to demand, energy prices tend to be higher and more volatile reflecting the increased vulnerability of the entire system to disruption. This could adversely affect a target business’ results of operations. Seasonal and adverse weather conditions, conservational measures and technical advances adversely affect demand for our services and operations after a business combination. Weather can also have a significant impact on demand as consumption of energy is seasonal and any variation from normal weather patterns, cooler or warmer summers and winters, can have a significant impact on demand. After a business combination, adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, may cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. 44 Table of Contents Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and gas. We cannot predict the impact of the changing demand for oil and gas services and products, and any major changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results. After a business combination, our ability to forecast the size of and changes in the worldwide oil industry, and our ability to forecast our customers’ activity levels and demand for our products and services, may impact management of any service and distribution activities we then own, staffing levels and cash and financing requirements. Unanticipated changes in our customers’ requirements could impact costs, creating temporary shortages or surpluses of equipment and people and demands for cash or financing. International and political events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our post business combination revenue may be derived from non-United States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we transact business. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Operations in countries other than the United States are subject to various risks peculiar to each country. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: • expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country; • political and economic instability; civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force of nature, war, or other armed conflict; • natural disasters, including those related to earthquakes and flooding; • inflation; currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contract rights; and • governmental activities that may result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation. Due to the unsettled political conditions in many oil-producing countries and countries in which we may operate, our revenue and profits are subject to the adverse consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls, and governmental actions. Countries where we may operate that have significant amounts of political risk include: Afghanistan, Algeria, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Nigeria, Russia, and Venezuela. In addition, military action or continued unrest in the Middle East could impact the supply and pricing for oil and gas, disrupt our operations in the region and elsewhere, and increase our costs for security worldwide. Our facilities and our employees could come under threat of attack in some countries where we may operate, including Iraq and Saudi Arabia. In addition, we may become subject to the risk related to loss of life of our personnel and our subcontractors in these areas. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners, and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with applicable laws. Military action, other armed conflicts, or terrorist attacks could limit or disrupt markets and our operations. Military action in Iraq and Afghanistan, military tension involving North Korea and Iran, as well as the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and subsequent terrorist attacks, threats of attacks, and unrest, have 45 Table of Contents caused instability or uncertainty in the world’s financial and commercial markets and have significantly increased political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we may operate a target business. Acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we may operate, such as the Middle East and Indonesia, could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts, or the loss of personnel or assets. Such events may cause further disruption to financial and commercial markets and may generate greater political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we may operate. In addition, any possible reprisals as a consequence of the war and ongoing military action in Iraq, such as acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, could materially and adversely affect us in ways we cannot predict at this time. Income taxes could adversely affect a target business’ operations. A target business may have operations in countries other than the United States. Consequently, we could be subject to the jurisdiction of a significant number of taxing authorities. The income earned in these various jurisdictions is taxed on differing bases, including net income actually earned, net income deemed earned, and revenue-based tax withholding. The final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of local tax laws, tax treaties, and related authorities in each jurisdiction, as well as the significant use of estimates and assumptions regarding the scope of future operations and results achieved and the timing and nature of income earned and expenditures incurred. Changes in the operating environment, including changes in tax law and currency/repatriation controls, could impact the determination of our tax liabilities for a tax year. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 