risk factors or physical symptoms) to reduce the risk of plasma contamination. Screening methods are generally less sensitive and specific than a direct test as a means of identifying potentially contaminated plasma units. During the early phase of an outbreak of a new infectious disease, our ability to manufacture safe products would depend on the manufacturing process’ capacity to inactivate or remove the infectious agent. To the extent that a product’s manufacturing process is inadequate to inactivate or remove an infectious agent, our ability to manufacture and distribute that product would be impaired. If a new infectious disease were to emerge in the human population, the regulatory and public health authorities could impose precautions to limit the transmission of the disease that would impair our ability to procure plasma, manufacture our products or both. Such precautionary measures could be taken before there is conclusive medical or scientific evidence that a disease poses a risk for plasma-derived products. In recent years, new testing and viral inactivation methods have been developed that more effectively detect and inactivate infectious viruses in collected plasma. There can be no assurance, however, that such new testing and inactivation methods will adequately screen for, and inactivate, infectious agents in the plasma used in the production of our products. 41 Table of Contents If our Clayton facility or other major facilities, or the facilities of our third-party suppliers, were to suffer a crippling accident, or a force majeure event materially affected our ability to operate and produce saleable products, a substantial part of our manufacturing capacity could be shut down for an extended period. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from products manufactured, and services performed, at our plant located in Clayton, North Carolina. In addition, a substantial portion of our plasma supply is stored at facilities in Benson, North Carolina, and our Clayton facility. Although we believe we have adopted and maintain safety precautions, including separate areas for different manufacturing processes, if any of these facilities were to be impacted by an accident or a force majeure event such as an earthquake, major fire or explosion, major equipment failure or power failure lasting beyond the capabilities of our backup generators our revenues would be materially adversely affected. In this situation, our manufacturing capacity could be shut down for an extended period and we could experience a loss of raw materials, work in process or finished goods inventory. Other force majeure events such as terrorist acts, influenza pandemic or similar events could also impede our ability to operate our business. In addition, in any such event, the reconstruction of our Clayton fractionation plant or our plasma storage facilities, the regulatory approval of the new facilities, and the replenishment of raw material plasma could be time-consuming. During this period, we would be unable to manufacture our products at other plants due to the need for FDA and foreign regulatory authority inspection and certification of such facilities and processes. While we maintain property damage and business interruption insurance with limits of $1 billion, these amounts may still be insufficient to mitigate the losses from any such event. We may also be unable to recover the value of the lost plasma or work-in-progress, as well as the sales opportunities from the products we would be unable to produce. A significant number of our plasma collection centers are in Texas and in 2009 approximately 20% of our internally sourced plasma came from collection centers located on the United States border with Mexico. Donations at these centers could be impacted by changes in U.S. visa rules. In addition, we have a number of plasma centers in regions of the southeast which could be affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes. A disruption in our source of plasma due to events arising in a geographic region where many of our collection centers are located would limit our ability to maintain our current production levels of plasma-derived products. If we experience equipment difficulties or if the suppliers of our equipment or disposable goods fail to deliver key product components or supplies in a timely manner, our manufacturing ability would be impaired and our product sales could suffer. We depend on a limited group of companies that supply and maintain our equipment and provide supplies such as chromatography resins, filter media, glass and stoppers used in the manufacture of our products. In some cases we have only one qualified supplier. If our equipment should malfunction, the repair or replacement of the machinery may require substantial time and cost, which could disrupt our production and other operations. Our plasma collection centers rely on disposable goods supplied by Haemonetics Corporation and information technology systems hosted by a subsidiary of Haemonetics Corporation. Our plasma centers cannot operate without an uninterrupted supply of these disposable goods and the operation of these systems. We have experienced periodic outages of these systems, but a material outage would affect our ability to operate our collection centers. Alternative sources for key component parts or disposable goods may not be immediately available. Any new equipment or change in supplied materials may require revalidation by us and/or review and approval by the FDA, or foreign regulatory authorities, including the German Health Authority, which may be time-consuming and require additional capital and other resources. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier in a reasonable time period, or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. As a result, shipments of affected products may be limited or delayed. Our inability to obtain our key source supplies for the manufacture of our products may require us to delay shipments of products, harm customer relationships and force us to curtail operations. We purchase nearly all of our specialty plasma used for the production of hyperimmunes from a limited number of companies under short-term contracts. We currently rely on three companies—Biotest Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Octapharma AG, and Advanced Bioservices, LLC (ABS), a subsidiary of Kedrion SpA, all of which are our direct competitors—to supply nearly all of our specialty plasma required for the production of our hyperimmunes, which represented $74.2 million, or 4.8%, of our net revenue in 2009. Specialty plasma is plasma that contains antibodies to specific diseases, usually because the donor has been vaccinated. Our contracts with suppliers of specialty plasma are usually on a short term basis. Our contracts with Octapharma and ABS are set to expire on December 31, 2010 and our agreement with Biotest expires at year-end 2011. We are negotiating with Octapharma and ABS to extend these agreements. Depending upon these competitors’ production plans, it may be difficult to increase the amounts of plasma we purchase from them or to renew our contracts in the future. Our inability to replace the volumes provided by these suppliers through our own plasma collection efforts or through increased specialty plasma deliveries from other third parties would materially adversely affect our business. To the extent that we develop a supply of specialty plasma from our own collection centers, such specialty plasma may come at the expense of the plasma we use for our other products. It would also take significant time to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and develop a sufficient donor base. 42 Table of Contents We rely in large part on third parties for the sale, distribution and delivery of our products. In the U.S., we regularly enter into distribution, supply and fulfillment contracts with group purchasing organizations, home care companies, alternate infusion sites, hospital groups, and others. We are highly dependent on these contracts for the successful sale, distribution and delivery of our products. For example, we rely principally on group purchasing organizations and on our distributors to sell our IGIV product and on Centric Health Resources to fulfill prescriptions for Prolastin A1PI. If the parties with which we contract breach, terminate, or otherwise fail to perform under the agreements, our ability to effectively distribute our products will be impaired and our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, through circumstances outside of our control, such as general economic decline, market saturation, or increased competition, we may be unable to successfully renegotiate our contracts or secure terms which are as favorable to us. In addition, we rely on distributors for sales of our products outside the U.S. Disagreements or difficulties with our distributors supporting our export business could result in a loss of sales. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities, limit sales of our existing products and limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of plasma-derived therapeutic protein products. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and an even greater risk when we commercially sell any products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we could incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for our products and any product candidates that we may develop; · injury to our reputation; · withdrawal of clinical trial participants; · costs to defend the related litigation; · substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; · loss of revenue; and · the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. Bayer is the defendant in continuing litigation alleging that use of products manufactured at our Clayton site in the 1980s, prior to our formation transaction and carve-out from Bayer, resulted in the transmission of Hepatitis C virus and HIV to patients. Bayer is also a defendant in litigation alleging that thimerosal, a preservative that was added to some intra muscular (hyperimmune) immune globulin products until 1996 (at which time its use was discontinued), was the cause of autism and other disorders in children who received these products. While we are not a party to any of these actions, and Bayer has agreed to fully indemnify us from any claims or losses arising out of these actions, we cannot assure you that our products or any of their constituents or additives may not someday give rise to similar product liability claims that we will be forced to defend and which may have a material adverse affect on our business. We have a global insurance policy with limits of $100 million with a per claim deductible of $5 million and an aggregate deductible of $10 million. This amount of insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. We intend to expand our insurance coverage as our sales grow. Insurance coverage is, however, increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Our products and manufacturing processes are subject to regulatory requirements and authority, including over our manufacturing practices and any product recalls. Our products, and our advertising and promotional activities for such products, are subject to regulatory requirements, ongoing review, and periodic inspections by the FDA, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies. In addition, the manufacture and packaging of plasma products are regulated by the FDA and comparable regulatory bodies in Canada, Europe and elsewhere and must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s cGMP regulations and comparable requirements of foreign regulatory bodies, including the GHA. 43 Table of Contents Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or failure by us or any third-party manufacturers, including Bayer, to comply with cGMP regulations, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: · restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; · withdrawal of products from the market; · voluntary or mandatory recall; · suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals and licenses; · cessation of our manufacturing activities, which may be for an extended or indefinite period of time; · product seizure; and · injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We could also be required to add warnings to our packaging or labeling that could negatively differentiate our product in the view of customers or patients. For example, we settled a dispute with a customer in September 2007 regarding intermediate material manufactured by us, which is used by this customer in their manufacturing process. We recorded a charge to cost of goods sold of $7.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2007 for inventory impairment related to this material, which we recovered in its entirety during 2008 as the related material was determined to be saleable, converted into final product, and sold to other customers. Similarly, during 2008, we recorded an additional inventory impairment provision of $2.6 million related to this dispute for products held in Europe, for which we recovered $0.8 million and $1.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, as the impacted material was determined to be saleable, converted into final product, and sold to other customers. Separately, our plans to transition from Prolastin to our next generation therapy could be affected by the approval timing of regulatory authorities. Our current plan calls for a simultaneous transition in the U.S. and Canada over several quarters. The launch in Europe will be delayed beyond the launch in North America because we have yet to receive European regulatory approval. Presently additional clinical trials are being required by European regulators as a precursor to Prolastin-C approval. Additionally, we could face further delays with respect to launches in specific European countries. To the extent regulatory authorities do not act within the same time-frame, we will need to operate both new and old manufacturing processes in parallel with overlapping crews, higher costs, and lower yields. Certain of our other business practices are subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities. The laws governing our conduct are enforceable by criminal, civil and administrative penalties. Violations of laws such as the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Law, and any regulations promulgated under their authority, may result in jail sentences, fines, or exclusion from federal and state programs, as may be determined by Medicare, Medicaid and the Department of Defense and other regulatory authorities. Certain business practices, such as entertainment and gifts for healthcare providers, sponsorship of educational or research grants, charitable donations, and support for continuing medical education programs, must be conducted within narrowly prescribed and controlled limits to avoid any possibility of influencing healthcare providers to prescribe particular products. Additional and stricter prohibitions could be implemented by federal and state authorities. Where such practices have been found to be improper incentives to use such products, government investigations and assessments of penalties against manufacturers have resulted. Many manufacturers have been required to enter into consent decrees or orders that prescribe allowable corporate conduct. We have developed and implemented a comprehensive Healthcare Compliance Program and provide an initial and annual refresher training for all employees whose activities may be subject to these requirements. There can be no assurance, however, that our marketing activities will not come under the scrutiny of regulators and other government authorities or that our practices will not be found to violate applicable laws rules and regulations. In addition, while regulatory authorities generally do not regulate physicians’ discretion in their choice of treatments for their patients, they do restrict communications by manufacturers on unapproved uses of approved drugs or on the potential safety and efficacy of unapproved products in development. Companies in the U.S., Canada and European Union cannot promote approved products for other indications that are not specifically approved by the competent regulatory authorities (e.g., FDA in the U.S.), nor can companies promote unapproved products. In limited circumstances companies may disseminate to physicians information regarding unapproved uses of approved products or results of studies involving investigational products. If such activities fail to 44 Table of Contents comply with applicable regulations and guidelines of the various regulatory authorities, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. Furthermore, if such activities are prohibited, it may harm demand for our products. Promotion of unapproved drugs or unapproved indications for a drug is a violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and subjects us to civil and criminal sanctions. Furthermore, sanctions under the Federal False Claims Act have recently been brought against companies accused of promoting off-label uses of drugs, because such promotion induces the use, and subsequent claims for reimbursement under Medicare and other federal programs. Similar actions for off-label promotion have been initiated by several states for Medicaid fraud. Violations or allegations of violation of the foregoing restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business. To market and sell our products outside of the U.S., we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and comply with regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions. The approval procedures vary among countries in complexity and timing. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all, which would preclude us from commercializing our products in those markets. For example, while we completed a Mutual Recognition Procedure in the European Union, facilitating our ability to sell Prolastin A1PI in 15 European countries, we are in the process of discussing reimbursement on a country-by-country basis, which must be concluded before we can expect to significantly increase sales in a number of these countries. We have not been successful in receiving reimbursements to date and there can be no assurance when, if ever, we will receive reimbursement within those countries for Prolastin A1PI. In addition, some countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, regulate the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In these countries, pricing discussions with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. Such trials may be time-consuming, expensive, and may not show an advantage in efficacy for our products. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, in either the United States or the European Union, we could be adversely affected. Our business involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, various biological compounds and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials and chemicals. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us. Additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. In addition, we export our products to a variety of countries whose legal regimes and business customs and practices differ significantly from those in the United States. A failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations or export sales could expose us to significant penalties. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, anti-money laundering, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, including those of the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials. While we require our employees to comply with applicable laws and we monitor legal compliance, we cannot be certain that our employees or agents will comply in all instances or that we will promptly identify violations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our products’ reputations, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. We are required to provide accurate pricing information to the U.S. government for the purpose of calculating reimbursement levels by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and for calculating certain federal prices and federal rebate obligations. We are required to report detailed pricing information, net of included discounts, rebates and other concessions, to CMS for the purpose of calculating national reimbursement levels, certain federal prices, and certain federal rebate obligations. We have established a system for collecting and reporting this data accurately to CMS and have instituted a compliance program to assure that the information we collect is complete in all respects. If we report pricing information that is not accurate to the federal government, we could be subject to fines and other sanctions that could adversely affect our business. In addition, the government could change its calculation of reimbursement, federal prices, or federal rebate obligations which could negatively impact us. 45 Table of Contents We seek to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to our technology and products. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology and products, especially intellectual property related to our purification processes. The patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology or products. Even if issued, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Additionally, most of our patents relate to the processes we use to produce our products, not the products themselves. In many cases, the plasma-derived products we produce or develop in the future will not, in and of themselves, be patentable. Since our patents relate to processes, if a competitor is able to design and utilize a process that does not rely on our protected intellectual property, that competitor could sell a plasma-derived product similar to one we developed or sell. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, we are a party to a number of license agreements which may impose various obligations on us, including milestone and royalty payments. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in our or their issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. If a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our anticipated U.S. patent position. We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We require our officers, employees, consultants and advisors to execute proprietary information and invention and assignment agreements upon commencement of their relationships with us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our inventions, trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor to develop alternative products, we could face increased competition and lose a competitive advantage. We, like other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, may become aware of counterfeit versions of our products becoming available domestically and abroad. Counterfeit products may use different and possibly contaminated sources of plasma and other raw materials, and the purification process involved in the manufacture of counterfeit products may raise additional safety concerns, over which we have no control. Any reported adverse events involving counterfeit products that purport to be our products could harm our reputation and the sale of our products, in particular, and consumer willingness to use plasma-derived therapeutics generally. We may infringe or be alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. Our products or product candidates may infringe or be accused of infringing one or more claims of an issued patent or may fall within the scope of one or more claims in a published patent application that may be subsequently issued and to which we do not hold a license or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents or patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. On May 21, 2008, Baxter Healthcare Corporation (Baxter) and National Genetics Institute (NGI), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Laboratory Corporation of America, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina alleging that we infringed U.S. Patent Nos. 5,780,222, 6,063,563, and 6,566,052. The patents deal primarily with a method of screening large 46 Table of Contents numbers of biological samples utilizing various pooling and matrix array strategies, and the complaint alleges that the patents are owned by Baxter and exclusively licensed to NGI. If we are found to infringe the patent rights of a third party, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from a third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us. We may, however, be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information of any such employee’s former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims and, even if we are successful in defending ourselves, could result in substantial costs to us or be distracting to our management. If we fail to defend any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. We may not be able to commercialize products in development. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates or for marketing of existing products for new indicated uses, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive preclinical tests to demonstrate the safety of our product candidates in animals and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: · regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial within a country or at a prospective trial site respectively; · the regulatory requirements for product approval may not be explicit, may evolve over time and may diverge by jurisdiction; · our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we had expected to be promising; · the number of patients required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate, or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate, any of which would result in significant delays; · our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; · we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if any participant experiences an unexpected serious adverse event; · regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including non-compliance with regulatory requirements; 47 Table of Contents · undetected or concealed fraudulent activity by a clinical researcher, if discovered, could preclude the submission of clinical data prepared by that researcher, lead to the suspension or substantive scientific review of one or more of our marketing applications by regulatory agencies, and result in the recall of any approved product distributed pursuant to data determined to be fraudulent; · the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; · the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate because we do not currently have any agreements with third-party manufacturers for the long-term commercial supply of any of our product candidates; · an audit of preclinical or clinical studies by the FDA or other regulatory authority may reveal non-compliance with applicable regulations, which could lead to disqualification of the results and the need to perform additional studies; and · the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: · be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates; · not be able to obtain marketing approval; · not be able to obtain reimbursement for our products in some countries; · obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended; or · have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether any preclinical tests or clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant preclinical or clinical trial delays also could shorten the patent protection period during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. Even if preclinical trials are successful, we may still be unable to commercialize the product due to difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval for the process or problems in scaling the engineering process to commercial production. Additionally, if produced, the product may not achieve an adequate level of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community to be profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the prevalence and severity of any side effects; · the efficacy and potential advantages over alternative treatments; · the ability to offer our product candidates for sale at competitive prices; · relative convenience and ease of administration; · the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; the strength of marketing and distribution support; and · sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that any products which we may seek to develop will ever be successfully commercialized, and to the extent they are not, such products could be a significant expense with no reward. 48 Table of Contents If we experienced material weaknesses or fail to otherwise maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, there is more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected by our internal controls. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. We have identified and remediated material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in the past. Under the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to include a report by our management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010 must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accountants have issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accountants are unable to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, the market’s perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected. Our inability to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective would also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that will be required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our future success depends on our ability to retain members of our senior management and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our executive and scientific teams. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development, operational and commercialization objectives. In particular, we believe the loss of the services of Lawrence D. Stern, John M. Hanson, Mary J. Kuhn, Thomas J. Lynch, John R. Perkins, Joel E. Abelson, Stephen R. Petteway, John F. Gaither, Kari D. Heerdt, Daniel L. Menichella, James R. Engle and Bruce Nogales would significantly and negatively impact our business. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our executive officers. We have employment contracts only with Messrs. Stern (through March 31, 2012), Hanson (through October 10, 2010) and Gaither (through September 5, 2010) and Ms. Heerdt (through April 1, 2010) and these expire on the dates indicated unless renewed. Our risk of key employee turnover may increase after the vesting of options in April 2010. Recruiting and retaining qualified operations, finance and accounting, scientific, clinical and sales and marketing personnel will be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms, given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. Federal cGMP regulations also require that the personnel we employ and hold responsible for the collection, processing, testing, storage or distribution of blood or blood components be adequate in number, educational background, training and experience, including professional training as necessary, or combination thereof, and have capabilities commensurate with their assigned functions, a thorough understanding of the procedures or control operations they perform, the necessary training or experience, and adequate information concerning the application of relevant cGMP requirements for their individual responsibilities. Our failure to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel may result in a regulatory violation, affect product quality, require recall or market withdrawal of affected product, or a suspension or termination of our license to market our products, or any combination thereof. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on us. Three customers accounted for approximately 36% and 35% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Similarly, our accounts receivable balances have also been concentrated with a small number of customers. Two customers accounted for approximately 23% and 29% of our accounts receivable, net, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In the event that any of these customers were to suffer an adverse downturn in their business or a downturn in their supply needs, our business could be materially adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that these customers will continue purchasing our products at past volumes, or, in the event that any of them were to cease doing business with us, that we could replace such 49 Table of Contents customer on substantially similar terms or at all. Therefore, the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross profit and financial condition. Under certain market conditions, our customers’ liquidity may worsen and they may demand longer payment terms, higher early payment discounts, volume rebates and other concessions which would have adverse financial consequences on us. A significant amount of our U.S. Gamunex volume is contracted. As these contracts expire over the next few years, beginning in 2011, we may not be able to renew the commitments on as favorable terms, or at all. Since the late 1980s we have been the “supplier of record” for the Canadian blood system. Under existing contracts, we are the largest supplier of plasma-derived products to the Canadian blood system operators, Canadian Blood Services and Hema Quebec. We transport plasma from Canadian Blood Services and Hema Quebec collection centers to our manufacturing facility in Clayton, North Carolina for manufacture, and return the finished product, along with commercial product, for sale to Canadian Blood Services and Hema Quebec. Pricing for our products and services is set at the beginning of the contract period, subject to adjustment for inflation. The U.S. dollar based contracts are terminable upon default, or the occurrence of certain events, including a third party obtaining Canadian regulatory approval to introduce a significantly superior product or fractionation service, our products or services becoming obsolete, or if we make certain nonrelated improvements and Canadian Blood Services or Hema Quebec do not accept the associated price increase. We were awarded new five year contracts in December 2007, which became effective April 1, 2008. The contracts may be extended for two one-year terms upon agreement of the parties. Under these contracts, we fractionate 100% of the Canadian plasma initially and a majority of the Canadian plasma throughout the contract period and supply a majority of the Canadian requirements for IGIV during the contract term as well. Canadian Blood Services has elected to pursue a dual-source strategy and although we will continue to be the primary supplier, we anticipate annual volume declines because of their strategy. Hema Quebec has a sole source strategy for fractionation of their plasma and we expect our IGIV share to remain relatively constant through the duration of the contract. We derive significant revenue and profits under these contracts, and a failure to maintain contracts with the Canadian blood system operators or any diminution in the volume or price under future contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Potential business combinations could require significant management attention and prove difficult to integrate with our business. If we become aware of potential business combination candidates that are complementary to our business, we may decide to combine with such businesses or acquire their equity or assets. We have acquired businesses or product lines in the past. For example, in April 2005, we acquired Precision Pharma Services, Inc., a contract fractionator located in Melville, New York, and in November 2006 and June 2007 we acquired groups of plasma collection centers in varying stages of development and assumed certain liabilities from IBR, a supplier of source plasma. We have since acquired additional plasma collection centers on a case by case basis. Business combinations generally may involve a number of difficulties and risks to our business, including: · failure to integrate management information systems, personnel, research and development, marketing, operations, sales and support; · potential loss of key current employees or employees of the acquired company; · disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · potential loss of the acquired company’s customers; · failure to develop further the other company’s technology successfully; · unanticipated costs and liabilities; and · other accounting and operational consequences. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from any business combination we may undertake in the future and any benefits we do realize may not justify the acquisition price. Any integration process would require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. If our customers are uncertain about our ability to operate on a combined basis, they could delay or cancel orders for our products. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or accurately forecast the financial impact of a combination, including accounting charges or volatility in the stock price of the combined entity. If we fail to successfully integrate other companies with which we may combine in the future, our business and financial results could be harmed. 50 Table of Contents Talecris Holdings, LLC and its affiliated entities will continue to exercise significant control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of February 10, 2010, Talecris Holdings, LLC owned approximately 49.9% of our outstanding common stock. Talecris Holdings, LLC is owned by (i) Cerberus-Plasma Holdings LLC, the managing member of which is Cerberus Partners, L.P., and (ii) limited partnerships affiliated with Ampersand Ventures. Substantially all rights of management and control of Talecris Holdings, LLC are held by Cerberus-Plasma Holdings LLC. As long as Talecris Holdings, LLC owns or controls such a substantial portion of our outstanding voting power, it may have the ability to delay or prevent a change in control of us that may be favored by other stockholders and may otherwise exercise substantial control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval: · the election and removal of directors and the size of our board; · any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; · the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or · the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit our other stockholders. A majority of our board of directors will not be considered “independent” under the rules of The Nasdaq Global Select Market. Until January 21, 2010 a majority of our common stock was owned by Talecris Holdings, LLC. As a result, we are now phasing in the requirements under Nasdaq rules. A majority of the directors on each of our compensation committee and our nominating committee must continue to meet Nasdaq independence requirements after April 20, 2010. All directors on these committees will need to meet Nasdaq independence requirements by January 21, 2011. In addition, by January 21, 2011, a majority of our board of directors will need to be “independent” under Nasdaq rules. Failure to meet these requirements could result in our delisting. Currently, our board has determined that four of our directors are “independent.” Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, even if beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our corporate charter and our bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. Among others, these provisions: · establish a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board are elected at one time; · allow the authorized number of our directors to be changed only by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of our shares of capital stock or by resolution of our board of directors; · limit the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from the board; · establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our board of directors; · require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit actions by our stockholders by written consent; · impose a “fair price” requirement that prohibits an acquiror attempting to effect a takeover of our company from utilizing a two tier price structure as part of a two stage acquisition of our outstanding stock; · limit who may call stockholder meetings; 51 Table of Contents · require any stockholder (or group of stockholders acting in concert) who seek to transact business at a meeting or nominate directors for election to submit a list of derivative interests in any company securities, including any short interests and synthetic equity interests held by such proposing stockholder; · require any stockholder (or group of stockholders acting in concert) who seek to nominate directors for election to submit a list of “related party transactions” with the proposed nominee(s) (as if such nominating person were a registrant pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K, and the proposed nominee was an executive officer or director of the “registrant”); and · authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquiror, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 40,000,010 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined by our board of directors at the time of issuance or fixed by resolution without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent, or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change in control, thereby preserving the current stockholders’ control. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The restrictions contained in Section 203 are not applicable to any of our existing stock holders that own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate and this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to our investors. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate. A number of factors, many of which are not within our control, could cause variability in our operations and our operating results and may result in fluctuations in our stock price. These factors include the risks discussed elsewhere in this section, and may include: · contamination of products or material that does not meet specifications in production or final product which could result in recalls, write-offs and other costs; · changes in plasma procurement costs, yield, or other manufacturing costs that may increase our cost of goods sold for the period; · non-capitalizable costs associated with our capital projects; · seasonality of sales, particularly our hyperimmune products; · competitor activities, including new product introductions; · variations in product demand or price; · regulatory developments in the United States and elsewhere; · the departure of key personnel; · interest rate fluctuations impacting our floating rate revolving credit facility and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the international markets in which we operate; and · general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our operations. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, the price of our 52 Table of Contents common stock may rapidly decline, resulting in losses to our investors. If our stock price is volatile, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. The stock market has at times experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased their shares. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: · disruptions in, or shortages of, our plasma supply; · disruption of product supply, product availability, or product recalls; · results of clinical trials and regulatory review of our product candidates or those of our competitors; · introduction of competing products or the announcement by our competitors of their plans to do so; · new therapeutic technologies that may replace plasma-derived proteins; · regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries; · variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; · healthcare reform legislation or other changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; · pricing fluctuations due to changing market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; · general economic, industry and market conditions; and · other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We have outstanding 122,552,847 shares of common stock as of February 10, 2010. Of these shares, 61,175,236 held by Talecris Holdings, LLC and 1,689,420 shares held by our directors and employees will become eligible for sale when certain lock-up agreements expire on March 29, 2010. Talecris Holdings, LLC has rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We also have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon exercise or vesting, subject to the expiration of the lock-up agreements. In addition, as of February 10, 2010, we had exercisable options to purchase 1,429,425 shares of our common stock that were not subject to lock-up agreements. On April 1, 2010, it is expected that there will be 9,722,727 additional shares subject to stock options available for exercise and 2,416,676 additional shares available for sale as a result of the vesting of stock options and restricted stock grants and expiration of the lock-up agreements. Sales of shares by our directors and employees are generally subject to the limitations discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report under the heading “Shares Eligible for Future Sale.” We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Although we declared a $73.2 million dividend to our stockholders on December 30, 2005 and a $760.0 million dividend to our stockholders on December 6, 2006, we currently anticipate that we will retain all funds for use in the operation of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any further cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Therefore, any return on investment in our common stock is solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market. We cannot guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value. See the discussion contained elsewhere in this Annual Report under the heading “Dividend Policy.” Talecris Holdings, LLC has certain registration rights for its shares of our common stock, which, if exercised, may result in additional shares of our common stock being publicly available and may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to our 53 Table of Contents investors. Talecris Holdings, LLC, the holder of 61,175,236 shares of our common stock, has the right to require us to register these shares under the Securities Act under specified circumstances, as follows: · Demand and Form S-3 Registration Rights. Beginning April 6, 2010, Talecris Holdings LLC, subject to specified limitations, may require that we register all or part of its shares of our common stock for sale under the Securities Act on an unlimited number of occasions. In addition, Talecris Holdings, LLC may from time to time make demand for registrations on Form S-3, a short form registration statement, when we are eligible to use this form. · Incidental Registration Rights. If we register any of our common stock, either for our own account or for the account of other securityholders, Talecris Holdings, LLC is entitled to notice of the registration and to include its shares of common stock in the registration. · Limitations and Expenses. Other than in a demand registration, with specified exceptions, Talecris Holdings, LLC’s right to include shares in a registration is subject to the right of the underwriters to limit the number of shares included in the offering. All fees, costs and expenses of any demand registrations and any registrations on Form S-3 will be paid by us, and all selling expenses, including underwriting discounts and commissions, will be paid by the holders of the securities being registered. Upon exercise of any of these registration rights, additional shares of our common stock will be publicly available for purchase and this increased availability of shares in the marketplace could cause the price of our common stock to decline, resulting in losses to our investors. Lock-up Agreements with our directors, executive officers and Talecris Holdings, LLC will soon expire, which may result in increased sales of our common stock. We, all of our directors and executive officers and Talecris Holdings, LLC have agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, without the prior written consent of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Goldman, Sachs & Co., we and they will not, during the period ending March 29, 2010, subject to exceptions specified in the lock-up agreements, offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or hedge our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for or exercisable for our common stock, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase, lend or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, any shares of our common stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. Further, we and each such person have agreed that, during this period, they will not make any demand for, or exercise any right with respect to, the registration of our common stock or warrants or other rights to purchase the common stock. As of February 10, 2010, we had outstanding 122,552,847 shares of common stock. Of these shares, 61,175,236 shares held by Talecris Holdings, LLC and 1,689,420 shares held by our directors and employees will become eligible for resale when the lock-up agreements expire on March 29, 2010. Talecris Holdings, LLC has the right to require us to file one or more registration statements with the SEC to register the resale of the shares it holds. In addition as of February 10, 2010, we had exercisable options to purchase 1,429,425 shares of our common stock that were not subject to lock-up agreements. On April 1, 2010, it is expected that there will be 9,722,727 additional shares subject to stock options available for exercise and 2,416,676 additional shares available for sale as a result of the vesting of stock options and restricted stock grants and expiration of the lock-up agreements. Sales of shares by our directors and employees are generally subject to the limitations discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report under the heading “Shares Eligible for Future Sale.” Once the lock-up agreements expire, sales activity for our common stock may increase. If sales activity increases, the price of our common stock may decline, resulting in losses to our investors. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt and take other actions that could diminish our ability to make payments on the 7.75% Notes when due. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more additional indebtedness in the future, including by accessing approximately $323.0 million of unused available borrowing capacity under our existing revolving credit facility, based on our December 31, 2009 indebtedness. We are not fully restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not prohibited by the terms of the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes, any of which actions could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the 7.75% Notes when due and further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Furthermore, the terms of the instruments governing our subsidiaries’ indebtedness may not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from taking such actions. Although the indenture for the 7.75% Notes and our revolving credit facility contain covenants limiting indebtedness, these covenants are subject to a number of significant exceptions and qualifications. Although the 7.75% Notes are referred to as “senior” notes, they are effectively subordinated to our and each guarantor’s secured indebtedness and all obligations of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. The 7.75% Notes are our unsecured senior obligations and are guaranteed by, subject to limited exceptions, our current and 54 Table of Contents future domestic subsidiaries. The 7.75% Notes are not guaranteed by our foreign subsidiaries. Subsidiaries that we may establish or acquire in the future that are foreign subsidiaries, or that we may designate as unrestricted subsidiaries in accordance with the indenture, will not guarantee the 7.75% Notes. The 7.75% Notes are not secured by any of our assets. Our borrowings under our revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, including’ substantially all of the assets of our domestic subsidiaries (other than real property and certain accounts receivable). As a result of this structure, the 7.75% Notes are effectively subordinated to (1) all of our and each guarantor’s secured indebtedness, to the extent of the value of the collateral, and (2) all indebtedness and other obligations, including trade payables, of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. The effect of this effective subordination is that, in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding involving us or a subsidiary, the assets of the affected entity could not be used to pay holders of our 7.75% Notes until after: · all secured claims against the affected entity have been fully paid; and · if the affected entity is a non-guarantor subsidiary, all other claims against that subsidiary, including trade payables, have been fully paid. The lenders under our revolving credit facility or the holders of other secured indebtedness will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law (in addition to any remedies that may be available under documents pertaining to our revolving credit facility or our other secured indebtedness). The exercise of such remedies may adversely affect our ability to meet our financial obligations under the 7.75% Notes. As of December 31, 2009: · we had outstanding an aggregate of $10.0 million of secured obligations that are effectively senior to the 7.75% Notes, comprising capital leases; and · the non-guarantor subsidiaries had outstanding an aggregate of approximately $13.8 million of obligations, consisting of trade payables and other accrued expenses, which are effectively senior to the 7.75% Notes. Our business operations may not generate the cash needed to service and repay the 7.75% Notes or our other indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the 7.75% Notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash in the future will be subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that we will have future borrowings available under our revolving credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay the interest and principal of our indebtedness when due or to fund other liquidity needs. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of the 7.75% Notes will become due and payable by us. Our revolving credit facility matures in December of 2011. We may not be able to generate sufficient funds from operations to pay the principal of the 7.75% Notes or revolving credit facility when due. In that event, we will need to raise additional funds through the refinancing of all or part of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, the sale of assets or the sale of equity securities. Each of these alternatives is dependent upon financial, business and other general economic factors affecting the credit and equity markets generally or our business in particular, many of which are beyond our control, and we can make no assurances that any such alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms. In particular, our ability to refinance indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all depends on market conditions at the time of refinancing. The terms of refinancing indebtedness may be materially less favorable to us than the terms of our current indebtedness. In addition, while we believe that consolidated cash flow generated by our operations will provide adequate sources of long-term liquidity for operations, a significant drop in operating cash flow resulting from economic conditions, competition or other uncertainties beyond our control could increase the need for refinancing or new capital. If we default in the payment of amounts due on the 7.75% Notes (or other outstanding indebtedness), it would give rise to an event of default under the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes and under the revolving credit facility (or the agreements governing our other debt) and possible acceleration of amounts due under the indenture and under the revolving credit facility (or those other agreements). A payment default under our revolving credit facility or any other debt document, or an acceleration of amounts due under the revolving credit facility (or other debt documents) would cause an event of default under the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes, if the amount of debt involved is $50.0 million or more. In the event of any acceleration, there can be no assurance that we will have enough cash to repay our outstanding indebtedness. The indenture governing the 7.75% Notes and our revolving credit facility contain operating and financial restrictions on us that 55 Table of Contents may limit our flexibility in operating our business. Under the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes and under the revolving credit facility, we are required to satisfy a number of covenants that may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. For instance, these covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, engage in unrelated businesses, incur certain liens; make prepayments of certain indebtedness and sell certain assets or merge with or into other’ companies. These covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any breach could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing, or to reduce expenditures. We cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms favorable to us. In addition, under our revolving credit facility, as amended, we are required to satisfy a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.10 to 1.00 if our borrowing availability based on eligible collateral is less than $48.75 million. If we were unable-to meet this fixed charge coverage ratio, the lenders could elect to terminate the facility and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. In such an event, unless we are able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace our revolving credit facility, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs to service our debt or fund operations. We have a holding company structure and we will depend in part on distributions from our subsidiaries in order to pay amounts due on the 7.75% Notes; certain provisions of law or contractual restrictions could limit distributions from our subsidiaries. We derive substantially all of our operating income from, and hold substantially all of our assets through, our subsidiaries. The effect of this structure is that we will depend in part on the earnings of our subsidiaries, and the payment or other distribution to it of these earnings, in order to meet its obligations under the 7.75% Notes and other outstanding debt. Provisions of law, such as those requiring that dividends be paid only from surplus, could limit the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments or other distributions to us. Furthermore, our subsidiaries could in certain circumstances agree to contractual restrictions on their ability to make distributions. These restrictions could also render the subsidiary guarantors financially or contractually unable to make payments under their guarantees of the 7.75% Notes. If we experience a change of control, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase the 7.75% Notes. However, we may be unable to do so due to lack of funds or covenant restrictions. If we experience a change of control (as defined in the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes), we will be required to make an offer to repurchase all outstanding 7.75% Notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued but unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase. However, we may be unable to do so because: · we might not have enough available funds, particularly since a change of control could cause part or all of our other indebtedness to become due; and · the agreements governing our credit facilities and other secured indebtedness would prohibit us from repurchasing the 7.75% Notes, unless we were able to obtain a waiver or refinance such indebtedness. As a result, a holder of 7.75% Notes may have to continue to hold 7.75% Notes even after a change of control. A failure to make an offer to repurchase the 7.75% Notes upon a change of control would give rise to an event of default under the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes and could result in an acceleration of amounts due thereunder. In addition, any such default under the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes would trigger a default under our revolving credit facility (which could result in the acceleration of all indebtedness thereunder). A change of control (as defined in the credit agreement), in and of itself, is also an event of default under our revolving credit facility, which would entitle our lenders to accelerate all amounts owing thereunder. In the event of any such acceleration, there can be no assurance that we will have enough cash to repay our outstanding indebtedness, including the 7.75% Notes. A guarantee could be voided if the guarantor fraudulently transferred the guarantee at the time it incurred the indebtedness, which could result in the noteholders being able to rely only on us to satisfy claims. A guarantee that is found to be a fraudulent transfer may be voided under the fraudulent transfer laws described below. The application-of these laws requires the making of complex factual determinations and estimates as to which there may be different opinions and views. 56 Table of Contents In general, federal and state fraudulent transfer laws provide that a guarantee can be voided; or claims under a guarantee may be subordinated to all other debts of that guarantor if, among other things, at the time it incurred the indebtedness evidenced by its guarantee: · the guarantor intended to hinder, delay or defraud any present or future creditor; or · the guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the incurrence of the guarantee; and · was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; · was engaged in a business or transaction for which the guarantor’s remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or · intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay those debts as they matured. In addition, any payment by that guarantor under a guarantee could be voided and required to be returned to the guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of the creditors of the guarantor. The measures of insolvency for purposes of fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the governing law. Generally, a guarantor would be considered insolvent if: · the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets; · the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or · it could not pay its debts as they become due. We cannot predict: · what standard a court would apply in order to determine whether a guarantor was insolvent as of the date it issued the guarantee or whether, regardless of the method of valuation, a court would determine that the guarantor was insolvent on that date; or · whether a court would determine that the payments under the guarantee constituted fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds. In the event that the guarantee of the 7.75% Notes by a guarantor is voided as a fraudulent conveyance, holders of the 7.75% Notes would effectively be subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of that guarantor. Our credit ratings may not reflect all the risks of any investment in our 7.75% Notes. Our credit ratings are an independent assessment of our ability to pay debt obligations as they become due. Consequently, real, or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the 7.75% Notes. Our credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact that risks related to structural, market or other factors may have on the value of our 7.75% Notes. A holder of our 7.75% Notes may find it difficult to sell our 7.75% Notes. A holder of our 7.75% Notes may find it difficult to sell our 7.75% Notes because an active trading market for the 7.75% Notes may not develop. We do not intend to apply for listing or quotation of the 7.75% Notes or, if issued, the exchange notes, on any exchange. Therefore, we do not know the extent to which investor interest will lead to the development of a trading market or how liquid that market might be. Although the initial purchasers of the 7.75% Notes have advised us that they intend to make a market in the 7.75% Notes, and, if issued, the exchange notes, they are not obligated to do so. Accordingly, any market-making activities of the initial purchasers may be discontinued at any time without notice. If a market for the 7.75% Notes does develop, it is possible that a holder of our 7.75% Notes will not be able to sell our 57 Table of Contents 7.75% Notes or, if issued, the exchange notes at a particular time or that the prices that a holder would receive upon a sale will be favorable. It is also possible that any trading market that does develop for the 7.75% Notes or any exchange notes will not be liquid. Future trading prices of the 7.75% Notes and any exchange notes will depend on many factors, including: · our operating performance, financial condition and prospects, or the operating performance, financial condition and prospects of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry generally; · our ability to complete, if required, the offer to exchange the 7.75% Notes for the exchange notes; · the interest of securities dealers in making a market for the 7.75% Notes and any exchange notes; · prevailing interest rates; and · the market for similar securities. Historically, the market for non-investment grade debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused volatility in prices. If a market for the 7.75% Notes develops, it is possible that the market for the 7.75% Notes and, if issued, the exchange notes will be subject to disruptions and price volatility. Any disruptions may have a negative effect on holders of the 7.75% Notes, regardless of our operating performance, financial condition and prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 