D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business is susceptible to fluctuations in the real estate market of China, especially in certain areas of eastern China where a significant portion of our operations are concentrated, which may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We conduct our real estate services business primarily in China. Our business depends substantially on the conditions of the PRC real estate market. Demand for private residential real estate in China has grown rapidly in the recent decade but such growth is often coupled with volatility in market conditions and fluctuation in real estate prices. For example, following a period of rising real estate prices and transaction volumes in most major cities, the industry experienced a severe downturn in 2008, with transaction volumes in many major cities declining by more than 40% compared to 2007. Average selling prices also declined in many cities during 2008. Fluctuations of supply and demand in China’s real estate market are caused by economic, social, political and other factors. Since early 2009, China’s real estate market has rebounded and many cities have experienced increases in real estate prices and transaction volumes. This rebound has coincided with a sharp rise in the volume of bank loans as part of China’s response to the global economic crisis. To the extent fluctuations in the real estate market adversely affect real estate transaction volumes or prices, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As a significant portion of our operations is concentrated in Shanghai, Jiangsu Province and Zhejiang Province, where we generated in the aggregate approximately 39.7%, 50.6% and 50.8% of our total revenues in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively, any decrease in demand or real estate prices or any other adverse developments in these regions may materially and adversely affect our total real estate transaction volumes and average selling prices, which may in turn adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by government measures aimed at China’s real estate industry. The real estate industry in China is subject to government regulations, including measures that are intended to affect the growth rate of the industry. Before the global economic crisis in 2008, the PRC government had adopted a series of measures to restrain what it perceived as unsustainable growth in the real estate market. For example, the State Council and other related government agencies introduced regulations in 2006 that increased mandatory minimum down payments from 20% to 30% of the purchase price for properties with a floor area of more than 90 square meters and imposed a business tax on total proceeds from the resale of properties held for less than five years. In 2008, the PRC government relaxed some restrictions and introduced measures aimed at stimulating residential property purchases by individuals and stabilizing the real estate market. On October 22, 2008, for example, the Ministry of Finance, the State Administration of Taxation and the People’s Bank of China lowered transaction taxes, minimum down payment requirements, and the mortgage interest rate for certain residential real estate transactions. In December 2008, the General Office of the State Council promulgated rules that exempted certain residential real estate transactions from business tax and urban real estate tax. 7 Table of Contents In 2009, the PRC government started tightening its real estate policies again in response to rising property prices and perceptions of widespread property speculation. On January 1, 2010, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation re-imposed the business tax on total proceeds from the resale of certain residential properties held for less than five years. The China Banking Regulatory Authority withdrew its earlier policy and emphasized the minimum 40% down payment requirement for mortgages for second properties. On March 8, 2010, the Ministry of Land and Resources issued a circular to further strengthen the supervision on land supply, requiring a real estate developer to pay at least 50% of the land premium within one month and 100% within one year after the land use right contract is executed. On April 17, 2010, the State Council issued the Circular on Firmly Restraining Soaring Housing Prices in Certain Cities. According to this circular, • Down payment for the first self-use housing unit purchased by a family with a gross construction area of more than 90 square meters must be no less than 30% of the purchase price; • The minimum down payment for the second housing unit purchased by a family is increased from 40% to 50% and the loan interest rate must be no less than 110% of benchmark lending interest rate; • Down payment for the third or more housing unit purchased by any family and the loan interest rate must be further increased significantly based on the rate for the first and second housing units, as determined by commercial banks based on their assessment of the risks; • In regions where commercial housing unit prices are too high or have risen too fast or supply of housing units is insufficient, commercial banks may suspend extending loans to families for their purchases of the third or more housing unit, and may suspend extending loans to individuals for their purchase of housing units outside the region where they reside if they cannot furnish evidence of their payment of tax or social insurance premium for at least one year locally in the region where the subject housing units are located; and • Local governments are allowed to limit the total number of housing units one can purchase in certain period in light of the local situation. Such efforts by the government to slow down property price appreciation could reduce the activities in the real estate market and lessen real estate transaction volume, and prevent developers from raising capital they need or increase their costs to start new projects. We cannot assure you that the PRC government will not adopt new measures in the future that may result in lower growth rates in the real estate industry. Frequent changes in government policies may also create uncertainty that could discourage investment in real estate. Our business may be materially and adversely affected as a result of decreased transaction volumes or real estate prices that may result from government policies. 8 Table of Contents Our business is sensitive to the current global economic crisis. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions since 2008, and most of the world’s major economies are in or are just emerging from recession. While there has been improvement in some areas, it is still unclear whether the recovery is sustainable. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical tensions, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. Global economic trends have a significant impact on the Chinese economy, and any severe or prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. The real estate services industry in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving, and if this industry does not develop or mature as quickly as we expect, the growth and success of our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our development has depended, and will continue to depend, substantially on the growth of the real estate services industry in China, which is relatively new. We cannot predict the rate of growth, if any, of this industry. The development of the real estate services industry depends on, among other factors, real estate developers’ continuing outsourcing of non-core sales and other functions to professional real estate services companies, and the continued use by real estate sellers and buyers of real estate brokerage services in China and particularly in specific regions where we operate. The failure of the real estate services industry to develop rapidly may materially and adversely affect the growth and success of our business. Failure to maintain or enhance our brands or image could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We believe our “E-House” brand is associated with a leading integrated real estate services company with consistent high-quality services among both real estate developers and individual real estate buyers in China. However, the “CRIC” brand associated with our real estate information and consulting services and the “leju” brand associated with our online real estate business have not yet achieved an equal level of recognition separate from the “E-House” brand within the real estate industry in China. Our brands are integral to our sales and marketing efforts. Our continued success in maintaining and enhancing our brands and image depends to a large extent on our ability to satisfy customer needs by further developing and maintaining quality of services across our operations, as well as our ability to respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to satisfy customer needs or if our public image or reputation were otherwise diminished, our business transactions with our customers may decline, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of expanding into new geographical markets in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We plan to continue to expand our business into new geographical areas in China. As China is a large and diverse market, consumer trends and demands may vary significantly by region and our experience in the markets in which we currently operate may not be applicable in other parts of China. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our experience to expand into other parts of China. When we enter new markets, we may face intense competition from companies with greater experience or an established presence in the targeted geographical areas or from other companies with similar expansion targets. In addition, our business model may not be successful in new and untested markets and markets with a different legal and business environment, such as Hong Kong and Macau. Therefore, we may not be able to grow our revenues in the new cities we enter into due to the substantial costs involved. 9 Table of Contents If we cannot manage our growth effectively and efficiently, our operating results or profitability could be adversely affected. We have experienced substantial growth since our inception. We increased our revenues and our net income from $38.7 million and $11.4 million, respectively, in 2005, to $299.5 million and $117.4 million, respectively, in 2009, and we intend to continue to expand our operations. This expansion has placed, and will continue to place, substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological and other resources. Our planned expansion will also place significant demands on us to maintain the quality of our services to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any deviations, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our services. In order to manage and support our growth, we must continue to improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain additional qualified real estate service professionals as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified personnel and integrate new expansion into our operations. As a result, our quality of service may deteriorate and our operating results or profitability could be adversely affected. If we fail to successfully execute the business plans for our strategic alliances and other new business initiatives, our anticipated growth and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Since 2008, we have formed strategic alliances with a number of leading real estate developers in China including China Vanke Co., Ltd., or Vanke; Evergrande Real Estate Group, or Evergrande; Neo-China Group (Holdings) Limited, or Neo-China; Star River Property Holding Limited, or Star River; COFCO Property (Group) Co. Ltd., or COFCO; Shanghai Jingrui Properties (Group) Co, Ltd., or Jingrui; and Glorious Property Holding Limited, or Glorious Property. Under these strategic cooperation arrangements, we act as the exclusive sales agent for over 80 projects across China with over 50 million square meters of gross floor area, or GFA, in aggregate. The success of these strategic alliances depends on, among others, our successful sales and marketing of the projects and properties and the developers’ ability to make timely delivery of properties in satisfactory quality and quantity. If we fail to successfully market and sell these new properties, we may not be able to continue the existing strategic alliances or enter into new strategic relationships with leading real estate developers and our anticipated growth and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. In October 2009, our subsidiary, China Real Estate Information Corporation, or CRIC, completed its initial public offering and merged with the online real estate business of SINA Corporation, or SINA. CRIC has limited experience in operating a real estate Internet business and may also encounter difficulties in integrating acquired operations, services, corporate culture and personnel into its existing business and operations, which in turn may also adversely affect our growth and prospects. In January 2008, we expanded our service offerings by managing a real estate investment fund formed to invest in China’s real estate sector through diversified investment strategies. In January 2010, we formed and started managing another investment fund, E-House Shengyuan Equity Investment Center, in Shanghai, which seeks equity investment in businesses and assets we are familiar with. We have limited experience in managing investment funds. If we fail to identify and invest in projects that would generate reasonable returns as expected by the investors of the funds, we may not be able to raise additional funds to further expand our real estate investment management business, which in turn may adversely affect our anticipated growth and prospects. 10 Table of Contents We may lose our competitive advantage if we fail to obtain and maintain accurate, comprehensive and reliable data in our CRIC system or prevent disruptions or failure in the performance of our CRIC system. We have devoted substantial resources to developing, maintaining and updating our proprietary real estate information database and analysis system, which we refer to as the CRIC system. Our ability to provide consistent high-quality services and maintain our competitive advantage relies in large part on the accuracy, comprehensiveness and reliability of the data contained in our CRIC system. The task of establishing and maintaining accurate and reliable data is challenging. We rely on third-party data providers for a significant amount of the information in our CRIC system. While we attempt to ensure the accuracy of our data by using multiple sources and performing quality control checks, some of the data provided to us may be inaccurate. If our data, including the data we obtain from third parties, is not current, accurate, comprehensive or reliable, we could experience reduced demand for our services or legal claims by our customers, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, our staff use integrated standard internal processes to update our CRIC system. Any inefficiencies, errors or technical problems with related applications could reduce the quality of our data, which may result in reduced demand for our services and a decrease in our revenues. Any frequent or recurring disruption or failure in the performance of our CRIC system could also adversely affect the quality of our services and damage our reputation and our effort to successfully market the CRIC system. Our system is vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, fires, floods, earthquakes, hacking or other attempts to disrupt our systems, and similar events. Our servers, which are located in Shanghai, may also be vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Our disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, the quality of our services and our reputation could be harmed. The steps we need to take to increase the reliability of our CRIC system and to maintain complete backup may be costly, which could reduce our operating margin, and such steps may not reduce the frequency or duration of system failures and service interruptions. If we are unable to compete successfully, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We encounter intense competition in each of our business segments on a national, regional and local level. Competition in the industry is primarily based on quality of services, brand name recognition, geographic coverage, commission rates or service fees, and range of services. As compared to real estate development, providing real estate services does not require significant capital commitments. This low barrier to entry allows new competitors to enter our markets with relative ease. New and existing competitors may offer competitive rates, greater convenience or superior services, which could attract customers away from us, resulting in lower revenues for our operations. Competition among real estate services companies may cause a decrease in commission rates or service fees we receive and higher costs to attract or retain talented employees. Although we are one of the largest real estate services companies in China, our relative competitive position varies significantly by service type and geographic area. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively, maintain our current fee arrangements or margin levels or ensure that we will not encounter increased competition. Many of our competitors are local or regional firms, such as World Union Real Estate Consultancy (China) Ltd. and Hopefluent Group Holdings Limited, whose aggregate business may be smaller than ours but which may be more established and have greater market presence and brand name recognition on a local or regional basis. We are also subject to competition from other large national and international firms such as Jones Lang LaSalle and IFM Investments Limited (operator of the Century 21 secondary real estate brokerage network). These firms may have more financial or other resources than us. If we fail to compete effectively, our business operations and financial condition will suffer. In addition to competition from traditional real estate services providers, the advent of the Internet has introduced new ways of providing real estate services, as well as new entrants and competitors in our industry. If our expansion into online real estate services can not be carried out successfully to capture the business opportunities presented by technological changes and the emergence of e-business, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. 11 Table of Contents Our results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate due to seasonal variations in the real estate market, the non-recurring nature of our primary real estate agency services, billing cycles, unpredictable development cycles and advance cash deposits. Our operating income and earnings have historically been substantially lower during the first quarter than other quarters. This results from the relatively low level of real estate activity during the winter and the Chinese New Year holiday period, which falls within the first quarter each year. We generated 83.4%, 57.4% and 61.2% of our total revenues from primary real estate agency services in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Although we are expanding our service offerings, we expect to continue to rely on primary real estate agency services to generate a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Revenues from primary real estate agency services are typically generated on a project-by-project basis and are non-recurring in nature. This may contribute to the fluctuations in our period-to-period operating results. We typically enter into agency agreements with developers shortly before they are expected to obtain permits to sell their newly developed properties. However, the timing of obtaining these sales permits varies from project to project and is subject to uncertain and potentially lengthy delays as developers need to obtain a series of other permits and approvals related to the development before obtaining the sales permit. It is therefore difficult to predict the interval between the time we sign these agency agreements and the time we launch the sale for the projects. We recognize commission revenue from our primary real estate agency services upon achieving the successful sale of a property unit. See Item 5. Operating And Financial Review And Prospects—Critical Accounting Policy. “Successful sale,” as defined in individual contracts with our developer clients, depends on, among other things, the delivery of the down payment and some purchasers may not deliver the down payments on time. This makes it difficult for us to forecast revenues and increases period-to-period fluctuations, which could cause the price of our ADSs to fluctuate or decline or adversely affect our working capital levels. We have in the past entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, contracts from time to time with developers requiring us to pay deposits, which has from time to time resulted in our operating with negative cash flows or, if we fail to recover such deposits, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on a concentrated number of real estate developers may materially and adversely affect us. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, revenues derived from services we rendered to the top ten clients in each of those years accounted for approximately 59.7%, 68.4% and 50.6%, respectively, of our total revenues. Two real estate developer clients each contributed over 10% of our total revenues in 2007 and one real estate developer client accounted for over 10% of our total revenues in 2008 and 2009. In the future, these real estate developers, all of which are independent third parties, may not continue to engage our services at the same level, or at all. Should these real estate developers terminate or substantially reduce their business with us and we fail to find alternative real estate developers to provide us with revenue-generating business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face long cycles to settle our accounts receivable, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. As part of the industry practice, many of our developer clients elect to settle our commission only upon the completion of the entire project or a phase of a project. Our working capital levels are therefore affected by the time lag between the time we actually make sales, bill our clients and collect the commissions owed to us. This also results in large accounts receivable balances. As of December 31, 2009, our billed and unbilled accounts receivable balance, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, totaled approximately $153.5 million. If a large portion of our accounts receivable becomes delinquent and must be written off, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents To improve the security of our accounts receivable and deposits, we sometimes enter into agreements with our developer clients whereby they agree to use existing properties or the right to properties under construction as collateral against amounts owed to us. In the event of non-payment, we would then resell the properties or the right to properties under construction for cash. The resale price is subject to market conditions and could fall short of the amounts owed to us against which these properties or rights to properties under construction are used as collateral, in which case we would need to write off a portion of our accounts receivable or deposits, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to successfully sell the properties we contract to sell may be materially and adversely affected if our developer clients fail to make timely delivery of the properties or any of these properties experience significant quality defects, negative publicity or other problems. Our developer clients are responsible for the timely delivery and the quality of the properties we contract to sell. If our developer clients fail to make timely delivery of any of the properties or if any of these properties experiences significant quality defects, negative publicity or other problems, our ability to successfully sell the property may be materially and adversely affected and our reputation may also be harmed. This may in turn adversely affect our long-term ability to attract buyers for the properties we contract to sell. If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managerial and other employees, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We place substantial reliance on the real estate industry experience and knowledge of our senior management team as well as their relationships with other industry participants. Mr. Xin Zhou, our executive chairman, is particularly important to our future success due to his substantial experience and reputation in the real estate industry. We do not carry, and do not intend to procure, key person insurance on any of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team due to their departure, or otherwise, could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Finding suitable replacements for our current senior management could be difficult, and competition for such personnel of similar experience is intense. If we fail to retain our senior management, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our real estate service professionals interact with our customers on a daily basis. They are critical to maintaining the quality and consistency of our services and our brand and reputation. It is important for us to attract qualified managerial and other employees who have experience in real estate related services and are committed to our service approach. There may be a limited supply of qualified individuals in some of the cities in China where we have operations and other cities into which we intend to expand. We must hire and train qualified managerial and other employees on a timely basis to keep pace with our rapid growth while maintaining consistent quality of services across our operations in various geographic locations. We must also provide continuous training to our managerial and other employees so that they are equipped with up-to-date knowledge of various aspects of our operations and can meet our demand for high-quality services. If we fail to do so, the quality of our services may decrease in one or more of the markets where we operate, which in turn, may cause a negative perception of our brand and adversely affect our business. 13 Table of Contents Any failure to protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. We believe our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights are critical to our success. Any unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights could harm our competitive advantages and business. Historically, China has not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States or the Cayman Islands, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, we may lose these rights and our business may suffer materially. Any competitive advantage that we derive from our CRIC system depends in large part on our protecting our proprietary rights in it. We have imposed contractual obligations on employees and consultants and have taken other precautionary measures to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information and restricted the use of the proprietary information other than for our company’s benefit. If our employees and consultants do not honor their contractual obligations and misappropriate our database and other proprietary information, our business would suffer as a result. As the right to use Internet domain names is not rigorously regulated in China, other companies have incorporated in their domain names elements similar in writing or pronunciation to the “E-House” trademark or its Chinese equivalent. This may result in confusion between those companies and our company and may lead to the dilution of our brand value, which could adversely affect our business. Copyright infringement and other intellectual property claims against us may adversely affect our business and our ability to operate our CRIC system. We have collected and compiled in our CRIC system real estate-related news articles, reports, floor plans, architectural drawings, maps and other documents and information prepared by third parties. Because the content in our database is collected from various sources and distributed to others, we may be subject to claims for breach of contract, defamation, negligence, unfair competition, copyright or trademark infringement, or claims based on other theories. Although we do not use the information we obtain from clients during the course of providing real estate consulting services, the same information derived from other sources may be found in our database. In such cases, we could be subject to breach of confidentiality or similar claims, whether or not having merit, by those clients. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is displayed on our websites or accessible from our websites through links to other websites or information on our websites supplied by third parties. We have in the past been subject to claims by individuals claiming rights in certain of the maps, drawings and documents made available on the CRIC system or otherwise provided to our clients. Any lawsuits or threatened lawsuits in which we are involved, either as a plaintiff or as a defendant, could cost us a significant amount of time and money and distract management’s attention from operating our business. Any judgments against us in such suits, or related settlements, could have a material impact on our ability to operate or market our CRIC system, harm our reputation and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. If a lawsuit against us is successful, we may be required to pay damages or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be based upon commercially reasonable terms, or we may be unable to enter into such agreements at all. As a result, the scope of the data we offer to our clients could be reduced, or our methodologies or services could change, which may adversely affect the usefulness of our CRIC system and our ability to attract and retain clients. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain or keep licenses and permits applicable to the various real estate services we provide, we may incur significant financial penalties and other government sanctions. Due to the broad geographic scope of our operations and the wide variety of real estate services we provide, we are subject to numerous national, regional and local laws and regulations specific to the services we perform. If we fail to properly file records or to obtain or maintain the licenses and permits for conducting our businesses, the relevant branch office or subsidiary may be ordered to cease conducting the relevant real estate services and be subject to warning, fines and revocation of its licenses. As the size and scope of real estate sale transactions have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the multiple levels of licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from non-compliance have increased. In addition to the licenses for our operations, our secondary real estate brokers are required to have the requisite qualification licenses to engage in secondary real estate brokerage services. These licenses must be renewed every one or two years. We are not certain that our secondary real estate brokers can obtain or renew these licenses in a timely manner, if at all. As the State Administration for Industry & Commerce, or its local counterparts, will only issue a license to us to set up and operate a secondary real estate brokerage storefront in certain cities when the storefront has at least five licensed real estate brokers, our business could suffer if our secondary real estate brokers are unable to obtain or renew these qualification licenses in those cities. We may be subject to liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage activities. As a licensed real estate broker, we and our licensed employees are subject to statutory obligations not to sell properties that fail to meet the statutory sales conditions or provide false statements on the conditions of any property in any advertisement. We must present clients with relevant title certificates or sales permits of the properties and the related letter of authorization. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us or our employees to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties we brokered. We or our employees may become subject to claims by other participants in real estate transactions claiming that we or our employees did not fulfill our statutory obligations as brokers. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation.” Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could cause us to inaccurately report our financial result or fail to prevent fraud and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules require public companies to include a report of management on their internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a public company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We sometimes hire a professional consultant to assist us in such efforts. Our efforts to implement standardized internal control procedures and develop the internal tests necessary to verify the proper application of the internal control procedures and their effectiveness are a key area of focus for our board of directors, our audit committee and senior management. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009. See “Item 15. Control and Procedures.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which concludes that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material aspects as of December 31, 2009. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to continue to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 15 Table of Contents Any natural or other disaster, including outbreaks of health epidemics, and other extraordinary events could severely disrupt our business operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events. On May 12, 2008, a severe earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale occurred in Sichuan province of China, resulting in significant casualties and property damage and a sharp decline in real estate transactions in the affected areas. On April 14, 2010, another earthquake struck China’s Qinghai Province causing severe damage and casualties in the area. As we do not have operations in Qinghai, the recent earthquake did not have material adverse impact on our company. However, if any other similar disaster or extraordinary events were to occur in the area where we operate in the future, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of H1N1, or swine, influenza, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. Any prolonged occurrence of swine influenza, avian influenza, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating the advertising services business and real estate Internet business in China do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry or the Internet information services industry, we could be subject to severe penalties. E-House (China) Holdings Limited, or E-House Holdings, is a Cayman Islands company and a foreign person under PRC law. Due to PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising and Internet industries, we conduct part of our business through contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities. We rely on Shanghai Tian Zhuo Advertising Co., Ltd., or Tian Zhuo, to operate our real estate advertising services business and on Beijing Yisheng Leju Information Services Co., Ltd., or Beijing Leju, to operate our real estate Internet business. Tian Zhuo and Beijing Leju hold the licenses and approvals that are essential for our business operations. CRIC, our majority-owned subsidiary, has entered into, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Shanghai CRIC Information Technology Co., Ltd, or Shanghai CRIC, and Shanghai SINA Leju Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai SINA Leju, a series of contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo, Beijing Leju and their respective shareholders which provide CRIC with the substantial ability to control Tian Zhuo and Beijing Leju and makes CRIC their “primary beneficiary” for accounting purposes under U.S. GAAP. For descriptions of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Agreements with Tian Zhuo” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Agreements with Beijing Leju.” 16 Table of Contents If the PRC government finds that these contractual arrangements do not comply with its restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry or the Internet business, or if the PRC government otherwise finds that we, Tian Zhuo or Beijing Leju are in violation of PRC laws or regulations or lack the necessary permits or licenses to operate our business, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, which regulates advertising companies, and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, which regulates Internet information services companies, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ operations; • imposing fines or confiscating the income of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliates; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may not be able to comply; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. The imposition of any of these penalties would result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, as part of the contractual arrangements described above, the shareholders of Tian Zhuo and Beijing Leju entered into equity pledge agreements with Shanghai CRIC and Shanghai SINA Leju, respectively, two subsidiaries of CRIC. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, these pledges will only be effective upon registration with the relevant local office for the administration for industry and commerce. Shanghai SINA Leju has completed the registration of the pledge of the equity interest in Beijing Leju, while Shanghai CRIC is still in the process of registering the pledge of the equity interest in Tian Zhuo. We cannot assure you that Shanghai CRIC will ever be able to complete such registration procedures. If the pledge of the equity interests in Tian Zhuo is not registered, we cannot assure you that the effectiveness of such pledge can be recognized in PRC courts if disputes arise regarding the pledged equity interest or that Shanghai CRIC’s interests as pledgee will prevail over those of third parties. We rely on contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo, Beijing Leju and their shareholders for a portion of our operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control. We rely on contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo, Beijing Leju and their shareholders to operate our real estate advertising business and our real estate Internet business. For descriptions of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Agreements with Tian Zhuo” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Agreements with Beijing Leju.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over Tian Zhuo or Beijing Leju. These contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. If any of the other parties fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and we would have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. Furthermore, the legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over Tian Zhuo and Beijing Leju, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. 17 Table of Contents The shareholders of Tian Zhuo and Beijing Leju may have conflicts of interest with us. Tian Zhuo is jointly owned by Mr. Xin Zhou, our founder and executive chairman, and Mr. Xudong Zhu, a director of CRIC. Conflicts of interests between their dual roles as shareholders of Tian Zhuo and as directors of our company and CRIC may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, they will act in the best interests of our company and CRIC or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In addition, they may breach or cause Tian Zhuo and its subsidiaries to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us and CRIC to effectively control Tian Zhuo and its subsidiaries and receive economic benefits from them. Currently, we do not have arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between Mr. Zhou or Mr. Zhu and our company. We rely on them to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands and China, both of which provide that directors owe a fiduciary duty to our company, which requires him to act in good faith and in the best interests of our company and not to use his position for personal gain. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and Mr. Zhou, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. In addition, Beijing Leju is jointly owned by Mr. Xudong Zhu and Mr. Jun Luo, a co-president of CRIC. They may potentially have the same conflicts of interests as described above. Contractual arrangements we have entered into with Tian Zhuo and Beijing Leju may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we, Tian Zhuo or Beijing Leju owe additional taxes could reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be audited or challenged by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements we have entered into with Tian Zhuo or Beijing Leju do not represent an arm’s-length price and adjust the taxable income of Tian Zhuo, Beijing Leju or their subsidiaries in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction of expenses deductions recorded by Tian Zhuo, Beijing Leju or their subsidiaries, which could in turn increase their PRC tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on our variable interest entities for underpayment of taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our variable interest entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in PRC government policies could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth in China, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. As the real estate industry is highly sensitive to business spending, credit conditions and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven across different periods, regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government may implement measures that are intended to benefit the overall economy even if they would be expected to have a negative effect on the real estate industry. For example, on January 3, 2008, the State Council issued a Notice on Promoting Economization of Land Use, which urges the full and effective use of existing construction land and the preservation of farming land. 18 Table of Contents The real estate industry is particularly sensitive to credit policies. From late 2003 to mid-2008, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines, which had the effect of slowing the growth of credit, which in turn may have slowed the growth of the Chinese economy. In response to the global and Chinese economic downturn in 2008, the PRC government promulgated several measures aimed at stimulating economic growth. The People’s Bank of China has decreased the statutory deposit reserve ratio and lowered benchmark interest rates several times in late 2008 and kept them unchanged in 2009. In 2009, total new lending reached RMB9.6 trillion (approximately $1.4 trillion), representing an increase of RMB4.7 trillion (approximately $0.7 trillion) from the previous year. As of the end of 2009, the outstanding balances of RMB loans extended by financial institutions totaled RMB40.0 trillion (approximately $5.9 trillion), representing an increase of 31.7% from the end of 2008. Beginning in January 2010, the People’s Bank of China has twice raised the statutory deposit reserve ratio by 0.5% in order to curb credit expansion. We cannot assure you that China will always have stable economic growth in the future or that changes in credit policies that are intended to create stable economic growth will not adversely impact the real estate industry. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and variable affiliated entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income will be primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade- related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, for most capital account items, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. 19 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the RMB to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since July 2008, however, the RMB has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high. As a consequence, the RMB has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. As our costs and expenses are mostly denominated in RMB, a resumption of the appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as our operating subsidiaries and variable interest entities in China receive revenues in RMB, any significant depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our revenues in U.S. dollar terms and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. These and other effects on our financial data resulting from fluctuations in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs and your investment. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 requiring PRC domestic residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC domestic residents who are beneficial owners of offshore special purpose companies and have completed round trip investments but did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. PRC resident beneficial owners are also required to amend their registrations with the local SAFE branch in certain circumstances. We are aware that our PRC domestic resident beneficial owners subject to the SAFE registration requirement have registered with the Shanghai SAFE branch and are in the process of amending certain applicable registrations with the Shanghai SAFE. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our ability to contribute additional capital into out PRC subsidiaries, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. 20 Table of Contents Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. Under the applicable regulations and SAFE rules, PRC citizens who participate in an employee stock ownership plan or a stock option plan in an overseas publicly listed company are required to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. For participants of an employee stock ownership plan, an overseas custodian bank should be retained by the PRC agent, which could be the PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to hold on trusteeship all overseas assets held by such participants under the employee share ownership plan. In the case of a stock option plan, a financial institution with stock brokerage qualification at the place where the overseas publicly listed company is listed or a qualified institution designated by the overseas publicly listed company is required to be retained by the PRC agent to handle matters in connection with the exercise or sale of stock options for the stock option plan participants. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to this rule. We cannot assure you that we and our PRC optionees will complete such registration procedures in a timely manner, or at all. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview— Regulation—Regulations on Employee Share Options.” PRC regulations relating to acquisitions in China may subject us to requisite approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the failure to obtain such approval could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. The Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Regulation, jointly issued by six PRC regulatory agencies and amended by the Ministry of Commerce in 2009, include provisions that purport to require the Ministry of Commerce’s approval for acquisitions by offshore entities established or controlled by domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons of onshore entities that are related to such domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons. However, the interpretation and implementation of the M&A Regulation remain unclear with no consensus currently existing regarding the scope and applicability of the Ministry of Commerce approval requirement on foreign acquisitions among related parties. In 2008, for the purpose of a series of our acquisitions of advertising services and future businesses that may otherwise be restricted for foreign investments, we, through Shanghai CRIC, entered into contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo, our variable interest entity, and its shareholder, which provide us with substantial ability to control Tian Zhuo. After the transfer of 10% equity interests in Tian Zhuo from Mr. Xin Zhou to Mr. Xudong Zhu in July 2009, we entered into a series of new or amended contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo and its shareholders which continue to provide us with substantial ability to control Tian Zhuo. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Agreements with Tian Zhuo.” If the Ministry of Commerce subsequently determines that their approval was required for such contractual arrangements, we may need to apply for a remedial approval. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval or waiver of such approval from the Ministry of Commerce. Inability to obtain such approval or waiver from the Ministry of Commerce may have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Further, we may be subject to certain administrative punishments or other sanctions from the Ministry of Commerce. The Ministry of Commerce or other regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of our U.S. dollars funds into the PRC, or take other actions that could have further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. 21 Table of Contents Our holding company relies principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements it may have, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make payments to our holding company could have a material adverse effect on its ability to fund our operations, make investments or acquisitions, or pay dividends. E-House Holdings, is a holding company, and it relies principally on dividends from our subsidiaries in China to fund any cash and financing requirements it may have, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to the shareholders and service any debt it may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to E-House Holdings. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to E-House Holdings. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to E-House Holdings could materially and adversely limit its ability to fund our business operations, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses or pay dividends. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to approval by relevant governmental authorities in China. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Loans to and Direct Investment in PRC Entities by Offshore Holding Companies.” We may also decide to finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign-invested enterprises in China, depending on the amount of total investment, capital contributions to foreign-invested enterprises in China are subject to approval by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local branches. We may not obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Our business benefits from tax-related government incentives and discretionary policies. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives or policies could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Shanghai CRIC qualifies as a “high and new technology enterprise”, which entitles it to a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% from 2008 to 2010, subject to its maintenance of the “high and new technology enterprise” status. In addition, various local governments in China have provided discretionary preferential tax treatments to us. However, at any time, these local governments may decide to reduce or eliminate these preferential tax treatments. Furthermore, these local implementations of tax laws may be found in violation of national laws or regulations, and as a consequence, we may be subject to retroactive imposition of higher taxes as a result. We are required under U.S. GAAP to accrue taxes for these contingencies. The change in accounting requirement for reporting tax contingencies, any reduction or elimination of these preferential tax treatments and any retroactive imposition of higher taxes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Dividends payable to us by our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC withholding taxes, or we may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income and dividends distributed to our investors may be subject to PRC withholding taxes under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. Under the PRC tax laws effective prior to January 1, 2008, dividends paid to foreign investors by foreign-invested enterprises, such as dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules effective on January 1, 2008, all domestic and foreign invested companies would be subject to a uniform enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% and dividends from a PRC subsidiary to its foreign parent company will be subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 10%, unless such foreign parent company’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding, or the tax is otherwise exempted or reduced pursuant to PRC tax laws. Under the Administrative Measures for Non-Residents Enjoying Tax Treaty Benefits (Trial Implementation), effective on October 1, 2009, our Hong Kong subsidiaries need to obtain approval from the competent local branch of the State Administration of Taxation in order to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate of 5% in accordance with the Arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income. To date, the State Administration of Taxation has not published more detailed implementing regulations for these measures. The PRC State Administration Taxation further clarified in a circular that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance and that a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-the-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant the tax treaty benefits. It is unclear at this stage whether this circular applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries. However, it is possible that our Hong Kong subsidiaries might not be considered as the “beneficial owner” of any dividends from their PRC subsidiaries and as a result would be subject to withholding tax at the rate of 10%. As a result, there is no assurance that our Hong Kong subsidiaries will be able to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate. In addition, under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, enterprises organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered PRC resident enterprises and therefore be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management and control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of the enterprise. A subsequent circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation provides that a foreign enterprise controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as a “resident enterprise” with its “de facto management bodies” located within China if the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function mainly in the PRC; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) more than half of the enterprise’s directors or senior management with voting rights reside in the PRC. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, we would be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income; dividend income we receive from the PRC subsidiaries, however, may be exempt from PRC tax since such income is exempted under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law to a PRC resident recipient. However, as there is still uncertainty as to how the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules will be interpreted and implemented, we cannot assure you that we are eligible for such PRC enterprise income tax exemptions or reductions. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, dividends distributed to our investors by us, as a PRC resident, would be subject to the 10% PRC withholding tax, unless our non-PRC entity investors’ jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax, or the tax is otherwise exempted or reduced pursuant to the PRC tax laws. In addition, if we receive income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. 23 Table of Contents Foreign ownership of the real estate agency and brokerage business in China is restricted under the recent PRC regulation. This may limit our ability to establish our new PRC operating entities or to increase registered capital of existing entities in the future. E-House Holdings is a Cayman Islands company and a foreign person under PRC law. Pursuant to the Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue as most recently amended on December 1, 2007, the PRC government classifies real estate agency companies and real estate brokerage companies within the restricted category for foreign investment. We would require approval from the Ministry of Commerce or its local branch in order to establish new PRC operating entities or to increase the registered capital of our existing PRC operating entities. It may be difficult and time-consuming for us to obtain such approval, or we may not be able to obtain it at all. Accordingly, these approval requirements may hamper our ability to expand our real estate agency and brokerage business in China. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the real estate industry in China; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other real estate services companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies; • sales or repurchases of our ADSs or ordinary shares; and • general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities markets in the United States, China and elsewhere have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies, particularly in recent years. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. 24 Table of Contents Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of March 31, 2010, we have 80,324,227 ordinary shares outstanding, 94,507 of which have been issued to our depositary and reserved for future grants under our share incentive plan, and over 30% of which are available for sale subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs have appointed the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 25 Table of Contents You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because our holding company is incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our officers reside outside the United States. Our holding company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries in China. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a Cayman Islands or PRC court in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2009 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Based on the price of our ADSs, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe that we were a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2009. A non-U.S. corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. We must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year ending December 31, 2009 or any future taxable year. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which U.S. Holders (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) hold ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to U.S. Holders. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 26 Table of Contents 