Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is risky. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before investing. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose part or all of your investment. We may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC in the future. Risks Related To Our Industry The airline industry is unpredictable. The airline industry has experienced tremendous challenges in recent years and will likely remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Among other factors, the financial challenges faced by major carriers, including Delta Airlines, United Airlines and Northwest Airlines, and increased hostilities in the Middle East and other regions have significantly affected, and are likely to continue to affect, the U.S. airline industry. These conditions have resulted in declines and shifts in passenger demand, increased insurance costs, volatile fuel prices, increased government regulations and tightened credit markets, all of which have affected, and will continue to affect, the operations and financial condition of participants in the industry, including us, major carriers (including our code share partners), competitors and aircraft manufacturers. These industry developments raise substantial risks and uncertainties which will affect us, major carrier s (including our code share partners), competitors and aircraft manufacturers in ways that we currently are unable to predict. The airline industry is subject to the impact of terrorist activities or warnings. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and their aftermath negatively impacted the airline industry in general, including our operations. In particular, the primary effects experienced by the airline industry included a substantial loss of passenger traffic and revenue. While airline passenger traffic and revenue have recovered since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, additional terrorist attacks could have a similar or even more pronounced effect. Even if additional terrorist attacks are not launched against the airline industry, there will be lasting consequences of the September 11, 2001 attacks, including increased security and insurance costs, increased concerns about future terrorist attacks, increased government regulation and airport delays due to heightened security. Additional terrorist attacks or warnings of such attacks, and increased hostilities or prolonged military involvement in the Middle East or other regions, could negatively impact the airline industry, and result in decreased passenger traffic and yields, increased flight delays or cancellations associated with new government mandates, as well as increased security, fuel and other costs. There can be no assurance that these events will not harm the airline industry generally or our operations or financial condition in particular. Our operations may be adversely impacted by increased security measures mandated by regulatory authorities. Because of significantly higher security and other costs incurred by airports since September 11, 2001, many airports significantly increased their rates and charges to air carriers, including us, and may do so again in the future. On November 19, 2001, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, also referred to as the Aviation Security Act. This law federalized substantially all aspects of civil aviation security and created the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”) to which the security responsibilities previously held by the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) were transitioned. The TSA is an agency of the Department of Homeland Security. The Department of Homeland Security and the TSA and other agencies within the Department of Homeland Security have implemented numerous security measures, including the passing of the Aviation Security Act, th at affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. The Department of Homeland Security has announced greater use of passenger data for evaluating security measures to be taken with respect to individual passengers, expanded use of federal air marshals on flights (thus displacing revenue passengers), investigating a requirement to install aircraft security systems (such as active devices on commercial aircraft as countermeasures against portable surface to air missiles) and expanded cargo and baggage screening. Funding for airline and airport security required under the Aviation Security Act is provided in part by a $2.50 per segment passenger security fee for flights departing from the U.S., subject to a $10 per roundtrip cap; however, airlines are responsible for costs incurred to meet security requirements beyond those provided by the TSA. There is no assurance this fee will not be raised in the future as the TSA’s costs exceed the revenue it receive s from these fees. Similarly, we could be adversely affected by any implementation of stricter security measures by the Bahamian government. We cannot provide assurance that additional security requirements or security-related fees enacted in the future will not adversely affect us financially. 11 The airline industry is heavily regulated. All interstate airlines are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation (the “DOT”), the FAA and other governmental agencies. Regulations promulgated by the DOT primarily relate to economic aspects of air service. The FAA requires operating, air worthiness and other certificates; approval of personnel who may engage in flight, maintenance or operation activities; record keeping procedures in accordance with FAA requirements; and FAA approval of flight training and retraining programs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time-consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our aircraft for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as our aircraft, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our aircraft at any airport at which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Because we operate only two types of aircraft and have our operations centered at Fort Lauderdale Airport, we are particularly susceptible to any such limitations. The FAA may change its method of collecting revenues. The FAA funds its operations largely through a tax levied on all users of the system based on ticket sales as well as a tax on fuel. As the airline industry changes, the trust fund that provides funding for the FAA’s capital accounts and all or some portion of its operations has experienced an increase in its costs without a corresponding rise in its revenue such that in its fiscal 2004, the FAA’s costs exceeded its revenues by more than $4 billion. Further, the existing authority for the current FAA taxing system expired on September 30, 2007. As a result, the FAA has discussed eliminating or amending the current tax system and implementing user fees that could cause us to incur potentially significant additional expenses. If the FAA implements a user fee or otherwise increases its tax rate, we may not be able to pass this increased expense on to our customers. Such an expense could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business. A Senate draft version of the FAA Reauthorization Bill has proposed a $25 per-flight fee be charged on all flights, regardless of aircraft size. The recently passed House version of the Bill does not include such a fee. There can be no assurance that the final version of the Reauthorization Bill would exempt small commercial aircraft such as those operated by Gulfstream from these new charges. The airline industry is characterized by low profit margins and high fixed costs. The airline industry is characterized generally by low profit margins and high fixed costs, primarily for personnel, debt service and rent. The expenses of an aircraft flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried and, as a result, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing could have a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results. Accordingly, a minor shortfall in our expected revenue levels could harm our business. The airline industry is highly competitive. In general, the airline industry is highly competitive. Gulfstream not only competes with other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or operated as code share partners of major airlines, but we also face competition from low cost carriers and network airlines on many of our routes. One of our primary competitors in the Bahamas market, Bahamasair, is owned by the government of the Bahamas and receives substantial subsidies to fund operating losses. The receipt of these subsidies may reduce the airline’s requirement to take necessary actions to improve profitability, including raising prices to offset fuel costs. Gulfstream also competes with alternative forms of transportation, such as charter aircraft, automobiles, commercial and private boats and trains. Barriers to entry in most of Gulfstream’s markets are limited, and some of Gulfstream’s competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. 12 Risks Related To Our Business We have substantial fixed obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we had $8.7 million of debt. In addition, we have annual lease payments of approximately $6.7 million per year on our fleet of 27 B1900D aircraft, as well as a liability for the return of engines borrowed from the lessor of $3.8 million over the next several years. We believe we can fund our operations for the next twelve months through a combination of cash on hand, and cash we can obtain through refinancing or sales of certain assets, and implementation of our revised business plan. In January 2008, we began implementation of this revised business plan to mitigate as much as possible the effects of the increased price of jet fuel by reducing the complexity of our operations, lowering our operating expenses and raising cash by selling or refinancing certain aircraft and parts. However, we can make no assurance that implementation of this revised business plan will be timely or successfully completed. Our weakes t seasonal period typically occurs between August and December each year. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and lease obligations on a longer-term basis. The size of our debt and lease obligations could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. We would be adversely affected by the loss of key personnel. Our success is dependent upon the continued services of our management team. Our executives have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The loss of one of our executives or any other key employees (including the senior management team of Gulfstream and the Academy) could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on our management team. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. Gulfstream and the Academy are labor-intensive businesses. The airline industry has from time to time experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, specifically pilots and maintenance technicians. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, the result will be significantly higher training costs than otherwise would be necessary. Recently, it has become increasingly difficult to attract and retain employees in our industry in South Florida. There can be no assurance that Gulfstream or the Academy will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need from time to time. In addition, Gulfstream has been dependent on the Academy as a source of new pilots. Gulfstream’s flights are operated by a pilot and a first officer. A substantial portion of the first officers employed by Gulfstream are supplied by the Academy. Should there be a shortage of new pilots from t he Academy, Gulfstream would likely incur significantly higher training costs and labor expenses. Expansion of operations could result in operating losses. We are actively seeking opportunities to grow by adding new routes, aircraft, alliance partners, or by acquiring other regional airlines. These opportunities will likely include operating in areas away from our current Florida base. A material increase in the scope or scale of our operations could lead to integration difficulties, which could result in short- and/or long-term operating losses. We will incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as the requirements applicable to listing on the American Stock Exchange, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these regulations and requirements to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of being a public company, we will be required to create additional board committees. We will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. As a public company, we also expect that it will be more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a resu lt, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. If we are unable to effectively adjust our cost structure to address a significant increase in our legal, accounting and other expenses, our sales level and profitability could be harmed and our operations could be materially adversely affected. 13 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and, as a result, our business could be harmed and current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in us, which could cause our stock price to fall. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we expect will first apply to us for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. As a result, we expect to incur substantial additional expenses and diversion of management’s time. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or their effect on our operations since there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the American Stock Exchange. Any such action could harm our business or investors’ confidence in us, and could cause our stock price to fall. Risks Related To Gulfstream Gulfstream is dependent on our code share relationships. Gulfstream depends on relationships created by code share agreements with Continental, United and Northwest for a significant portion of our revenues. Currently, passengers that have connected from Continental, United and Northwest account for approximately 22%, 8% and 7% of our passenger revenue, respectively. Additionally, virtually all of our “local,” or non-connecting, traffic is booked through Continental’s reservation system. Any material modification to, or termination of, our code share agreements with any of these partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of operations. Each of the code share agreements contains a number of grounds for termination by our partners, including failure to meet specified performance levels. Further, these agreements limit our ability to enter into code share agreements with other airlines. Gulfstream’s code share partners may expand their direct operation of regional jets, thus limiting the expansion of our relationships with them. A decision by any of Gulfstream’s code share partners to phase out Gulfstream’s contract-based code share relationships or enter into similar agreements with one or more of Gulfstream’s competitors could have a material adverse effect on Gulfstream’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Also, our code share partners may be restricted in increasing the level of business that they conduct with Gulfstream, thereby limiting our growth. Union scope clauses at major airlines may limit or prohibit certain types of code share operations, including those by Gulfstream. Gulfstream is dependent on the financial strength of our code share partners. Gulfstream is directly affected by the financial and operating strength of its code share partners. In the event of a decrease in the financial or operational strength of any of the code share partners, such partner may be unable to make the payments due to Gulfstream under the code share agreement. It is possible that if any of the code share partners file for bankruptcy, Gulfstream’s code share agreement with such partner may not be assumed in bankruptcy and could be modified or terminated. Two of our code share partners, United Airlines and Northwest Airlines, have recently emerged from Chapter 11 reorganization. We operate our code share relationships as revenue-sharing arrangements. Under the revenue sharing, or pro rate, arrangements that we have in place with our code share partners, we bear substantially all costs associated with our flights. Because we are responsible for such costs, factors such as rising fuel costs, increases in operating expenses and decreases in ticket prices or passenger loads could cause our profits to decrease and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 14 The availability of additional and/or replacement code share partners is limited and airline strategic consolidations could have an impact on operations in ways yet to be determined. The airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and it may in the future undergo additional consolidation. Other developments include domestic and international code share alliances between major carriers, such as the “SkyTeam Alliance,” that includes Delta Airlines, Continental and Northwest, among others. Any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could limit the number of potential partners with whom Gulfstream could enter into code share relationships and materially adversely affect our relationship with our current code share partners. There is no assurance that our relationship with our code share partners would survive in the event that any such code share partner merges with another airline. Similarly, the bankruptcy or reorganization of one or more of our competitors may result in rapid changes to the identity of our competitors in particular markets, a substantial reduction in the operating costs of our competitors or the entry of new competitors into some or all of the markets we serve. We are unable to predict exactly what effect, if any, changes in the strategic landscape might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are constraints on our ability to establish new operations to provide airline service to major airlines other than our code share partners. Our code share agreement with Continental requires that we seek their consent prior to establishing new code share agreements, subject to limited exceptions, as well as prior to acquiring another regional carrier. In the absence of such consent, we would have to establish a new operating subsidiary, separate from Gulfstream, which would require a substantial expenditure of management time and Company resources. Additionally, pursuant to our code share agreement with Northwest, we may only provide airline service to other major airlines using aircraft certificated as having (1) less than 60 seats and (2) a maximum gross takeoff weight of less than 70,000 pounds (or such greater seat or weight limits as may be established under Northwest’s collective bargaining agreement with its pilots). Fluctuations in fuel costs could adversely affect our operating expenses and results. Aircraft fuel consumes an increasingly significant portion of our airline revenue (23.3% for 2005, 23.9% for 2006 and 24.7% for 2007). The price of aircraft fuel is unpredictable and has increased significantly in recent periods based on events outside of our control, including geopolitical developments, regional production patterns, environmental concerns and financial speculation. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of aircraft fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. We cannot assure you increases in the price of fuel can be offset by higher revenue. We carry limited fuel inventory and we rely heavily on our fuel suppliers. We cannot assure you we will always have access to adequate supplies of fuel in the event of shortages or other disruptions in the fuel supply. Price escalations or reductions in the supply of aircraft fuel will increase our operatin g expenses and could cause our operating results and net income to decline. Additionally, price escalations or reductions in the supply of aircraft fuel could result in the curtailment of our service. Some of our competitors may be better positioned to obtain fuel in the event of a shortage. Our business is subject to substantial seasonal and cyclical volatility. Gulfstream’s business is subject to substantial seasonality, primarily due to leisure and holiday travel patterns, particularly in the Bahamas. Traditionally, we experience the strongest demand from February to July, and the weakest demand from August to October, during which period we typically suffer operating losses. As a result, our operating results for a quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Our results of operations generally reflect this seasonality. Our operating results are also impacted by numerous other cycles and factors that are not necessarily seasonal. These factors include the extent and nature of fare changes and competition from other airlines, changing levels of operations, national and international events, fuel prices and general economic conditions, including inflation. Bec ause a substantial portion of both personal and business airline travel is discretionary, the industry tends to experience adverse financial results in general economic downturns. 15 Any inability to acquire and maintain additional compatible aircraft or engines would increase our operating costs and could harm our profitability. Our fleet currently consists of B1900D turboprop aircraft and EMB-120 turboprop aircraft, each equipped with two engines. Although our management believes there is an adequate supply of such aircraft and engines available at reasonable prices and terms to meet our current needs, we are unable to predict how long these conditions will continue. Any increase in demand for these aircraft or engines could restrict our ability to obtain additional aircraft, engines and spare parts. Because neither of the aircraft we operate are in active production, we may be unable to obtain additional suitable aircraft, engines or spare parts on satisfactory terms or at the time needed for our operations or for the implementation of our growth plan. Further, as fuel costs increase or remain at elevated levels, the demand for highly fuel-efficient turboprop aircraft may also increase. This increase in demand could cause a shortage in the supply of reasonably pric ed turboprop aircraft. Such a decrease could adversely affect our ability to expand our fleet or to replace outdated aircraft, which in turn could hinder our growth or reduce our revenues. Maintenance expenses for Gulfstream’s fleet could increase. Gulfstream’s fleet consists of aircraft that were delivered from 1990 to 1996. As the age of our aircraft increases, additional resources may be required to sustain their reliability levels. There can be no assurance that such additional resources will not be material. Any inability to extend the lease terms of our existing aircraft or obtain financing for additional aircraft could adversely affect our operations. We finance our aircraft through either operating lease financing or secured debt. Most of our existing fleet of B1900Ds are leased from the manufacturer pursuant to a lease agreement that expires in 2010. We have the option to extend the leases for up to 15 aircraft from six to 24 months after the expiration period; however, there can be no assurance that this lease agreement can be extended further on reasonable terms. If we are unable to extend these leases, we also have the option to purchase up to 21 of these aircraft; however, we may not be able to secure financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Further, neither the B1900D nor the EMB-120 is currently produced by their manufacturers and there is currently a limited supply of these aircraft. If we are unable to obtain replacement aircraft on economically reasonable terms, our business could be materially adversely affected. The airline industry has been subject to a number of strikes which could adversely affect our business. The airline industry has been negatively impacted by a number of labor strikes. Any new collective bargaining agreement entered into by other regional carriers may result in higher industry wages and add increased pressure on Gulfstream to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Furthermore, since each of Gulfstream’s code share partners is a significant source of revenue, any labor disruption or labor strike by the employees of any one of Gulfstream’s code share partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Competitors or new market entrants may introduce smaller aircraft or direct hub flights, which could reduce our competitive advantage. We operate relatively small aircraft on short flight routes, which enables us to maintain a low cost structure, giving us a competitive advantage over other airlines. If new market entrants or existing competitors were to introduce smaller aircraft into the marketplace, their costs may be lower than ours, allowing them to gain a competitive advantage. In addition, competitors could introduce new direct flights from their hubs to our key cities which could reduce the competiveness of our Florida connecting points. Several aircraft manufacturers have developed a new line of very light jets, commonly referred to as VLJ’s, which cost substantially less than existing corporate aircraft. New companies, including DayJet Corporation, which is also based in South Florida, have ordered hundreds of VLJ’s with the goal of developing a new industry segment of air taxis that offer services at a low cost to passengers. DayJet has announced that it will be targeting many of the cities served by Gulfstream. If DayJet launches this air taxi segment, or if others implement similar business models, Gulfstream could experience a loss of passengers and a resulting decline in revenues. Gulfstream could also be forced to lower prices to compete with DayJet and others and could suffer economic losses as a result. 16 Gulfstream flies and depends upon only two aircraft types, and would be adversely affected if the FAA were to ground either of our fleets. Gulfstream’s fleet consists of 27 B1900D turboprop aircraft and eight EMB-120 turboprop aircraft. The FAA requires operating, air worthiness and other certificates; approval of personnel who may engage in flight, maintenance or operation activities; record keeping procedures in accordance with FAA requirements; and FAA approval of flight training and retraining programs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. A decision by the FAA to ground or require additional time-consuming inspections of or maintenance on either the B1900D or EMB-120 or any of our aircraft for any reason may have a materi al adverse effect on the operations of Gulfstream. Gulfstream is at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving our aircraft. While Gulfstream has never had a fatal crash over our history, it is possible that one or more of our aircraft may crash or be involved in an accident in the future, causing death or injury to individual air travelers and our employees and destroying the aircraft. An accident or incident involving one of Gulfstream’s aircraft could involve significant potential claims of injured passengers and others, as well as repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and our consequential temporary or permanent loss of service. In the event of an accident, our liability insurance may not be adequate to offset the exposure to potential claims and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from the accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage would harm our operational and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that Gulfs tream’s operations are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which could result in a material reduction in passenger revenues. If Gulfstream is forced to relocate our Fort Lauderdale maintenance base, we may not be able to operate as successfully. The lease for Gulfstream’s principal maintenance facility, located at Hollywood-Fort Lauderdale International Airport, expires at the end of May 2009. Broward County is considering an improvement to the Hollywood-Fort Lauderdale International Airport that could result in a teardown of Gulfstream’s maintenance hangar. Gulfstream is currently in negotiations regarding a subsequent alternative location for a successor maintenance hangar on the airfield. If Gulfstream is forced to relocate its Fort Lauderdale maintenance operations, it may be prohibitively expensive to relocate and/or construct a maintenance hangar. Gulfstream may not be able to operate as efficiently or successfully from any other location. In addition, it is possible that Gulfstream would be unable to secure a suitable alternative location for our maintenance hangar. Were this to occur, we may be forced to outsource our airplane maintenance for a period of time, which would substantially increase our maintenance costs and cause us significant operational disruptions. Hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions could adversely affect Gulfstream’s business. Our routes in Florida and the Bahamas are particularly susceptible to the impact of hurricanes. In the event that a hurricane threatened one of our departure locations, we may be forced to cancel flights and/or relocate our fleet, either of which would cause us to lose revenues. Related storm damage could also affect telecommunications capability, causing interruptions to our operations. A hurricane could cause markets such as the Florida Keys and the Bahamas to sustain severe damage to their tourist destinations and thus cause a longer-term decrease in the number of persons traveling on our routes. Additionally, during periods of fog, ice, low temperatures, hurricanes, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. A significant interruption or disruption in service due to adverse weather or otherwise, could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of Gulfstream’s flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, operations and financial performance. 17 Gulfstream may experience labor disruptions or an increase in labor costs. All of Gulfstream’s permanent pilots are represented by International Brotherhood of Teamsters Airline Division Local 747, commonly known as the Teamsters. Our collective bargaining agreement with our pilots expires in 2009. In addition, our flight attendants have voted to be represented by the IAM, and we are currently engaged in negotiations with IAM. Although we have never had a work interruption or stoppage and we believe our relations with our union and non-union employees are generally good, Gulfstream is subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or may incur additional administrative expenses associated with union representation of our employees. Any sustained work stoppages could adversely affect Gulfstream’s ability to fulfill our obligations under our code share agreements and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. Our labor costs normally constitute approximately 23% of our total operating costs. Any new collective bargaining agreements entered into by other airlines may also result in higher industry wages and increased pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Future agreements with our employees’ unions may be on terms that are not economically as attractive as our current agreements nor comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors. Any future agreements may increase our labor costs or otherwise adversely affect us. Additionally, we cannot assure you that the compensation rates that we have assumed will correctly reflect the market for our non-union employees, or that there will not be future unionization of our currently nonunionized groups, which could adversely affect our costs. Our business is heavily dependent on the Bahamas markets and a reduction in demand for air travel to this market would harm our business. Almost half of our scheduled flights have the Bahamas as either their destination or origin and our revenue is linked primarily to the number of tourists and other passengers traveling to and from the Bahamas. Bahamian tourism levels are affected by, among other things, the political and economic climate in the Bahamas’ main tourism markets, the availability of hotel accommodations, promotional spending by competing destinations, the popularity of the Bahamas as a tourist destination relative to other vacation options, and other global factors, including natural disasters or negative publicity due to safety and security. No assurance can be given that the level of passenger traffic to the Bahamas will not decline in the future. A decline in the level of Bahamas passenger traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. New passport requirements may cause a decrease in the number of travelers from the U.S. to the Bahamas. In 2005, the United States issued a proposed Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative which would require United States citizens to have a passport or other accepted identity document to travel to or from certain countries or areas that were previously exempt, such as the Caribbean, including the Bahamas. The proposal was implemented in January 2007 for all United States citizens traveling to or from these destinations by air. If our United States passengers visiting the Bahamas do not have passports, these regulations could have a negative impact on our bookings; however, to date, the actual impact on the Company’s revenues is unclear. The current regulation of travel to Cuba is subject to political conditions and a change in the current restrictions could impair our ability to provide flights or minimize our competitive advantage. Pursuant to a services agreement that we have entered into with GAC, we provide the use of our aircraft, flight crews and other services to GAC for its operation of charter flights to Cuba, in exchange for which we receive 75% of the income generated by such charter flights. GAC’s flights to Cuba depend on political conditions prevailing from time to time in Cuba and the United States. Currently, GAC is one of a limited number of operators who provide flights from the United States to Cuba. If relations between the United States and Cuba worsen, these flights may be prohibited entirely and we may lose significant revenues due to GAC’s inability to operate these flights. Conversely, if relations between the United States and Cuba significantly improve, demand for access to Cuba could increase dramatically, causing the market for flights from the United States to Cuba to be flooded with new entrants. In either scenario, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected. 18 Cuba’s status as a state sponsor of terrorism could impact the sustainability and growth of the Company’s flights to Cuba. Cuba is listed as a state sponsor of terrorism by the U.S. Department of State, and as such, GAC’s flights to Cuba are subject to any restrictions that may be imposed as a result of such designation. GAC could be subjected to regulations and requirements that could increase its costs of operating flights to Cuba, restrict the number or manner of flights it operates to Cuba or prohibit such flights entirely. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected by further restrictions, or prohibitions, on doing business in Cuba as a country designated as a state sponsor of terrorism. We rely on third parties to provide us with facilities and services that are integral to our business and can be withdrawn on short notice. We have entered into agreements with third-party contractors, including other airlines, to provide certain facilities and services required for our operations, such as certain maintenance, ground handling, baggage services and ticket counter space. We will likely need to enter into similar agreements in any new markets we decide to serve. All of these agreements are subject to termination upon short notice. The loss or expiration of these contracts, the loss of FAA certification by our outside maintenance providers or any inability to renew our contracts or negotiate contracts with other providers at comparable rates could harm our business. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on our behalf also gives us less control over costs and over the efficiency, timeliness and quality of contract services. Aviation insurance is a critical safeguard of our financial condition and it might become difficult to obtain adequate insurance at a reasonable rate in the future. We believe that our insurance policies are of types customary in the industry and in amounts we believe are adequate to protect us against material loss. It is possible, however, that the amount of insurance we carry will not be sufficient to protect us from material loss. Some aviation insurance could become unavailable, available only for reduced amounts of coverage, or available only at substantially higher rates, which could result in our failing to comply with the levels of insurance coverage required by our code share agreements, our other contractual agreements or applicable government regulations. Additionally, war risk coverage or other insurance might cease to be available to our vendors or might only be available for reduced amounts of coverage. Risks Related To the Academy A decrease in demand for regional airline pilots could adversely impact the Academy’s ability to attract and retain students. We believe that the employment of our graduates is essential to our ability to attract and retain students. In the event that regional airline industry demand for pilots decreases significantly, it would have a detrimental impact on the ability of our graduates to gain employment, which could have an adverse effect on enrollment. The value of the Academy could be diminished if other airlines lower their required minimum flight hours. Academy students are pilots who hold commercial, multi-engine and instrument ratings who are qualified to operate commercial flights but who seek to enhance their marketability by logging additional training and flight hours. The Academy offers pilots the opportunity to log flight hours more quickly than the traditional time-building method of flight instructing. If the airlines who hire Academy graduates were to reduce the number of logged hours that they require new pilots to have, the value of the Academy could be diminished and the Academy could suffer decreased enrollment and a loss of revenues. The inability to finance tuition costs could adversely affect the Academy’s enrollment. Most of our students depend upon some form of third-party financing to finance part or all of the cost of tuition. This type of financing is only available from limited sources. The inability of prospective students to obtain third-party financing could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. Workplace error by graduates of the Academy could expose us to legal action. Many of the pilots that graduate from the Academy are ultimately employed by airlines other than Gulfstream. In the event of an accident caused by one of the graduates of the Academy, it is possible that the Academy could be named as a defendant in any lawsuit that may arise. There can be no assurance that our insurance policy will be adequate to cover the potential losses from any such claims. 19 Risks Related To Our Common Stock We do not pay cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and do not have current plans to do so. Instead, we will likely retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will likely be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. As described in “Description of Capital Stock — Anti-Takeover Provisions of Delaware Law and Charter Provisions”, these provisions may: · discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management; · adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock; and · limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market after our initial public offering, or the perception that this may occur, may depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market following our initial public offering, or the perception that substantial sales may be made, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Lock-up agreements were delivered in connection with our initial public offering by our executive officers, directors and some of our stockholders who beneficially own more than 5% of our common stock. Such lock-up agreements provide that Taglich Brothers, Inc., in its sole discretion, may release those parties, at any time or from time to time and without notice, from their obligation not to dispose of shares of common stock prior to the expiration of this lock-up period on June 14, 2008. Taglich Brothers, Inc. has no pre-established conditions to waiving the terms of the lock-up agreements, and any decision by it to waive those conditions would depend on a number of factors, which may include market conditions, the performance of the common stock in the market and our financial condition at that time. Number of Shares/% of Total Outstanding Date of Availability for Resale into Public Market 1,205,460 / 40.7% March 16, 2008 834,000 / 28.2% June 14, 2008 However, the underwriters can waive this restriction and allow these stockholders to sell their shares at any time. For a more detailed description, see “Shares Eligible for Future Sale.” Our future operating results may be below securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. We may be unable to generate significant revenues or grow at the rate expected by securities analysts or investors. In addition, our costs may be higher than we, securities analysts or investors expect. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indication of our future performance. In some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock will likely decline. 20 Potential investors could be prohibited from investing, or choose not to invest, in our common stock because we provide services to a company that operates flights to Cuba. Cuba has been identified as a state sponsor of terrorism by the U.S. Department of State. Some potential investors, including certain state sponsored pension funds or trust funds, may be prohibited from investing, or may choose not to invest, in companies that do business with or in countries designated as sponsors of terrorism. Additionally, unrestricted potential investors may choose not to invest in our common stock based solely or in part on the fact that we provide services to GAC, a company that operates flights to Cuba. The exclusion of such investors may limit the market for shares of our common stock or negatively impact the further development of an active trading market for our common stock. Our common stock has only been publicly traded for a short period of time, and the price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially, possibly resulting in class action securities litigation. Before our initial public offering in December 2007, there has been no public market for shares of our common stock. Since our initial public offering, the average daily trading volume of our common stock has been approximately 3,100 shares. An active public trading market may not develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. The market price for our common stock subsequent to the offering and in the future will be affected by a number of factors, including: · actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; · changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts earnings estimates; and · developments in our industry. Because of the low trading volume, our stock price is subject to greater volatility. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Class action securities litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management resources, which could significantly harm our business. The liability of our officers and directors is limited. Our certificate of incorporation limits the liability of directors to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that directors of a corporation will not be personally liable for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as directors, except liability for: · any breach of their duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders; · acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; · unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; or · any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. This limitation of liability does not apply to liabilities arising under the federal securities laws and does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also provide that we will indemnify our directors, officers, employees and agents for damages arising in connection with their actions in such capacities, subject to certain limitations as set forth in the bylaws. There is no pending litigation or proceeding involving any of our directors, officers, employees or agents where indemnification will be required or permitted. We are not aware of any pending or threatened litigation or proceeding that might result in a claim for indemnification. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 