Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral 13 Table of Contents statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They may be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more domestic or international operating businesses in the business process outsourcing industry. We have entered into a material definitive agreement to acquire Stream but the consummation of the business combination is dependent upon approval from our stockholders. We will not generate any revenues or income, other than interest income, until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We will liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination. Pursuant to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we have until October 17, 2009 in which to complete a business combination. If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, our corporate existence will, in accordance with our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. We view this obligation to liquidate as an obligation to our stockholders and we presume that investors will make an investment decision, relying, at least in part, on this provision. Thus, without the affirmative vote cast at a meeting of stockholders of at least 95% of the common stock issued in the offering, neither we nor our board of directors will take any action to amend or waive any provision of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation to allow us to survive for a longer period of time, except in connection with the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you that certain provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation will not be amended other than in connection with the consummation of a business combination. We believe that a vote to amend or waive any provision of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation would likely take place only to allow additional time to consummate a pending business combination. We view these provisions to be obligations to our stockholders and we presume that investors will make an investment decision relying, at least in part, on this provision. Although we are contractually obligated not to amend or waive this provision pursuant to the underwriting agreement that we entered into with the underwriters in connection with our IPO, we cannot assure you that other provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation will not be amended or waived by the affirmative vote cast at a meeting of stockholders of at least 95% of the common stock issued in our IPO. Stockholders will not have any rights or interest in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. Our stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of our liquidation or if they seek to convert their respective shares of common stock into cash upon a business combination which 14 Table of Contents the stockholder voted against and which is completed by us. Our founding stockholders will not have such conversion rights with respect to any shares of common stock owned by them. In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. If we are forced to liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive significantly less than $7.88 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. We must complete a business combination having a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets held in trust (net of taxes and amounts permitted to be disbursed for working capital purposes and excluding the amount held in the trust account representing the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such acquisition by October 17, 2009. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frame and are forced to liquidate the trust account, the per-share liquidation price received by our public stockholders from the trust account may be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our IPO, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Upon the liquidation of the trust account, public stockholders will be entitled to receive (unless there are claims not otherwise satisfied by the amount not held in the trust account or the indemnification provided by our officers and former chief financial officer) approximately $7.88 per share plus interest earned on their pro rata portion of the trust account (net of taxes payable and amounts permitted to be disbursed for working capital purposes), which includes $7,500,000 ($0.24 per unit) of the underwriters’ deferred discount and $7,500,000 ($0.24 per unit) of the purchase price of the founder warrants. Our officers and former chief financial officer have agreed jointly and severally to reimburse us to the extent we do not obtain valid and enforceable waivers from vendors, service providers, prospective target businesses or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, as well as for claims of prospective target businesses for fees and expenses of third parties that we agree in writing to pay in the event we do not consummate a combination with such target business in order to protect the amounts held in the trust account. In the event that we liquidate and it is subsequently determined that the reserve for claims and liabilities is insufficient, stockholders who received a return of funds from the liquidation of our trust account could be liable for claims made by our creditors. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate the trust account in the event we do not complete a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait until after October 17, 2009 before receiving liquidation distributions. We have until October 17, 2009 in which to complete a business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate a business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought conversion of their shares. Only after October 17, 2009 will public stockholders be entitled to any liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete a business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, with respect to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless the warrants comprising the units sold in our IPO and the shares of common stock underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do 15 Table of Contents so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Certain warrant holders are unlikely to receive direct notice of redemption of our warrants. We expect most purchasers of our warrants will hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently you are unlikely to receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. If you fail to receive notice of redemption from a third party and your warrants are redeemed for nominal value, you will not have recourse against us. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares of common stock are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in that certain Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 17, 2007, between us and the warrant agent, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares of common stock underlying the warrants following completion of our IPO to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we cannot assure that we will be able to do so and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. Such expiration would result in each holder paying the full unit purchase price solely for the shares of common stock underlying the unit. In addition, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the shares of common stock underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the existing warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares of common stock underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. In no event will the registered holders of a warrant be entitled to receive a net cash settlement, stock, or other consideration in lieu of physical settlement in shares of our common stock. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Although historically blank check companies have used a 20% threshold for conversion rights, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders, to exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock sold in our IPO voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) public stockholders owning 30% or more of the shares of common stock sold in our IPO do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Our founding stockholders will not have such conversion rights with respect to any shares of common stock owned by them. Historically, blank check companies have had a conversion threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which you may believe is not suitable for us, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. 16 Table of Contents The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder, other than our founding stockholders, the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the trust account. We allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination and our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until October 17, 2009. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection therewith, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. Pursuant to Section 280, if a corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any claims of creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. In the event of our liquidation, we may have to adopt a plan to provide for the payment of claims that may potentially be brought against us, which could result in the per-share liquidation amount to our stockholders being significantly less than $7.88. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by stockholders from the trust account as part of our plan of distribution will be less than $7.88 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Third-party claims may include contingent or conditional claims and claims of directors and officers entitled to indemnification under our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation. We intend to pay any claims, to the extent sufficient to do so, from our funds not held in trust. Although we will seek to have all 17 Table of Contents vendors, service providers and prospective target businesses or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders and have entered into such agreements with Stream, there is no guarantee that going forward such entities will execute such agreements. Even if they execute such agreements, they could bring claims against the trust account including but not limited to fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the $7.88 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account), due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and liquidate the company, our officers and former chief financial officer will be jointly and severally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced if we did not obtain a valid and enforceable waiver from vendors, service providers, or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, as well as any prospective target businesses for fees and expenses of third parties that we agree in writing to pay in the event we do not consummate a combination with such target business. We cannot assure you that our officers and former chief financial officer will be able to satisfy those obligations. The indemnification provisions are set forth in an insider letter executed by each of our officers and former chief financial officer. The insider letter specifically sets forth that in the event we obtain a valid and enforceable waiver of any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our stockholders from a vendor, service provider, prospective target business or other entity that is owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, the indemnification from officers and our former chief financial officer will not be available. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Claims for indemnification by our officers and directors may reduce the funds available to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money in the trust account. Under our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we have agreed to indemnify our officers and directors against a variety of expenses (including attorneys’ fees) to the fullest extent permitted under Delaware law. If indemnification payments are made to our officers and directors pursuant to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the amount of the money in the trust account may be reduced. As described above, we will seek to have all vendors, service providers and prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any 18 Table of Contents monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders. However, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future or, even if such entities agree to waive such claims, that such waiver would be enforceable. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders. Our officers and former chief financial officer have agreed, in the event we are unable to complete a business combination and liquidate the company, to be jointly and severally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced if we did not obtain a valid and enforceable waiver from such vendors, service providers, or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, or if we agreed in writing with any prospective target businesses to pay for fees and expenses of third parties in the event we do not consummate a combination with such target business. However, we will not indemnify our officers and former chief financial officer for payments made by them to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not so reduced. In certain circumstances, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duties to our creditors, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims for punitive damages. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders in our dissolution might be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders in our dissolution. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders as soon as possible after October 17, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors and/or complying with certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law with respect to our dissolution and liquidation. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. If the funds available to us are insufficient to allow us to operate at least through October 17, 2009, we may not be able to complete a business combination. We currently believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account together with up to $3,250,000 of interest earned on the trust account that may be released to us will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least the next 24 months, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. The $250,000 initially not held in the trust account will be used for working capital purposes. We could use a portion of the funds not being placed in trust to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential business combination or to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target acquisition. We could also use a portion of these funds as a down payment, “reverse break-up fee” (a provision in a merger agreement which requires a payment to the target company if the financing for an acquisition is not obtained), or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target acquisitions from “shopping” around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such target acquisitions) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target acquisition and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise) or if we agree to a reverse break-up fee and subsequently were required to pay such fee as a result of our breach of the acquisition agreement, we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to any other potential target acquisitions. In such event, we would need to obtain additional funds from our founding stockholders or another source to continue operations. There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, holding and disposition of target companies and assets. We may incur significant taxes in connection with effecting acquisitions; holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets; and disposing of target companies and assets. 19 Table of Contents Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination will be required to provide our stockholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles, the pool of prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with the requirements of United States federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP, and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards, a likely possibility considering the international nature of the outsourcing industry in general and the business process outsourcing industry in particular, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses. You are not entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our IPO are intended to be used to complete a business combination with an unidentified target acquisition, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we had net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 upon the consummation of our IPO and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC after our IPO including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as entitlement to all the interest earned on the funds deposited in the trust account. Because we are not subject to these rules, including Rule 419, we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances than we would if we were subject to such rule. We may issue shares of common stock of our capital stock to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 119,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. There are 38,062,500 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares of common stock upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the unit purchase option granted to our underwriters) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the date of this annual report, we are likely to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to the holders of our common stock; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely will also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we have no commitments, other than the commitment with PNC for $108.7 million described in Part I, Item 1 Business of this report, as of the date of this annual report to issue any notes or other debt 20 Table of Contents securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to complete a business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; • covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, to acquire capital assets or make additional acquisitions; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. Our investments in any future joint investment could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on a partner’s financial condition and disputes between us and our partners. While we will not structure our initial business combination in such a way that we will be the minority stockholder of a combined company, we may in the future co-invest with third parties through partnerships or joint investment in an acquisition target or other entities. In such circumstances, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding a target business, partnership or other entity. Investments in partnerships or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners might become insolvent or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such partners may also seek similar acquisition targets as us and we may be in competition with them for such acquisition targets. Disputes between us and partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners might result in subjecting assets owned by the partnership to additional risk. We may also, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third-party partners. For example, in the future we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a partnership or other entity. Such a guarantee may be on a joint and several basis with our partner in which case we may be liable in the event such party defaults on its guaranty obligation. In addition, if we were to partner with other entities to acquire a target acquisition, it may result in us reporting a minority interest or equity position related to such acquisition target in our financial statements, which could dilute our earnings. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of R. Scott Murray, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, President and Interim Chief Financial Officer and our other officers and directors, some or all of whom may not continue with us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of R. Scott Murray, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, President and Interim Chief Financial Officer , and other directors and officers. While we expect that our current officers will devote substantially all their time to our business, there are no assurances that any such officers will be able to devote either sufficient time, effort or attention to us when we need it. None of our current key personnel, including our officers, will have entered into employment or consultant agreements with us prior to our initial business combination. Further, although we presently anticipate that our officers will remain associated in senior management, advisory or other positions 21 Table of Contents with us following a business combination, some or all of the management associated with a target acquisition may also remain in place. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’s management and negotiate as part of the business combination that our founding officers and directors remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. As such, our key personnel may not continue to provide services to us after the consummation of a business combination if we are unable to negotiate employment or consulting agreements with them in connection with or subsequent to the business combination, the terms of which would be determined at such time between the respective parties. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the business combination. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target acquisition, the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. In addition, it is possible that certain key employees of a target acquisition may not remain with the surviving company and may need to be replaced by our officers or other management personnel recruited by us. We may be unable to successfully fill these positions, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. We may have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various operational issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers and directors allocate some portion of their time to other businesses thereby, causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. While we expect that our current officers will devote substantially all their time to our business, our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Certain of our directors are currently employed by other entities and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If other entities require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to their business and affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated with our directors or officers or any other founding stockholders, which may raise potential conflicts. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated with our directors or officers or any other founding stockholders, which may raise potential conflicts. We anticipate that we will first seek to identify unaffiliated acquisition targets. However, no consideration has 22 Table of Contents been given to any acquisition of any business affiliated with any of our directors or officers or any other founding stockholders or to the possibility of any such acquisition, and we are unable to predict whether, when or under what circumstances we would pursue or enter into any such acquisition. Also, the completion of a business combination between us and an entity owned by a business in which one of our directors or officers or any other founding stockholders may have an interest could enhance their prospects for future business from such client. For example, because one of our directors is the Chief Executive Officer of America’s Growth Capital, an investment banking firm, there may be a conflict of interest in determining whether to recommend a business combination in which our directors or officers or any other founding stockholders may have an interest. To minimize potential conflicts of interest, we have agreed not to consummate a business combination with an entity that is affiliated with any of our directors or officers or any other founding stockholders unless we obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent third-party appraiser, which will be an investment banking firm that is a member of The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, that the business combination is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view. Our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our officers or directors has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with additional entities, including other “blank check” companies which may be engaged in activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties or other contractual obligations. No procedures have been established to determine how conflicts of interest that may arise due to duties or obligations owed to other entities will be resolved. Accordingly, our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that any of these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our founding stockholders currently own shares of our common stock which will not participate in the liquidation of the trust account and a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a business combination. Our founding stockholders own shares of our common stock that were issued prior to our IPO, but have waived their respective rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to those shares of common stock if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Additionally, on October 17, 2007 we issued an aggregate of 7,500,000 warrants to certain of our founding stockholders at a purchase price of $1.00 per warrant for a total purchase price of $7,500,000. The recipients of these founder warrants have waived their respective rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to the common stock underlying these founder warrants. The shares of common stock acquired prior to our IPO and any warrants owned by our founding stockholders will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and our directors may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target acquisition and completing a business combination. Consequently, our officers’ discretion, and the discretion of our directors, in identifying and selecting a suitable target acquisition may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest and as a result of such conflicts management may choose a target acquisition that is not in the best interests of our stockholders. The requirement that we complete a business combination by October 17, 2009 may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business combination. We will liquidate and promptly distribute only to our public stockholders on a pro rata basis the amount in our trust account (subject to our obligations under Delaware law for claims of creditors) plus any remaining net 23 Table of Contents assets if we do not effect a business combination by October 17, 2009. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business combination will be aware of this requirement. Consequently, such target businesses may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business combination, knowing that if we do not complete a business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete a business combination with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the time limit referenced above. The requirement that we complete a business combination by October 17, 2009 may motivate our officers and directors to approve a business combination during that time period so that they may get their out-of-pocket expenses reimbursed. Each of our founding stockholders may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by such individual in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, as well as traveling to and from the offices, service centers or similar locations of prospective target acquisitions to examine their operations. The funds for such reimbursement will be provided from the money not held in trust. In the event that we do not effect a business combination by October 17, 2009, then any expenses incurred by such individuals in excess of the money being held outside of the trust will not be repaid as we will liquidate at such time. On the other hand, if we complete a business combination within such time period, those expenses will be repaid by the target business. Consequently, our officers, one of whom is also a director, may have an incentive to approve and complete a business combination other than just what is in the best interest of our stockholders. None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company and such lack of experience could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our officers and directors to identify and complete a business combination using the proceeds of our IPO. Our management’s lack of experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and could result in our having to liquidate our trust account. If we liquidate, our public stockholders could receive less than the amount they paid for our securities, causing them to incur significant financial losses. Other than with respect to the business combination, our officers, directors, security holders and their respective affiliates may have a pecuniary interest in certain transactions in which we are involved, and may also compete with us. Other than with respect to the business combination, we have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, such parties may have an interest in certain transactions such as strategic partnering or joint venturing in which we are involved, and may also compete with us. Mr. Howe, a director of ours, is Chief Executive Officer of America’s Growth Capital, an investment banking firm, and America’s Growth Capital may receive investment banking fees as a result of any acquisition opportunities referred to us. However, we have adopted a policy that, prior to the consummation of a business combination, none of our strategic advisory council members or founding stockholders, or any entity with which they are affiliated, will be paid, either by us or a target acquisition company, any finder’s fee, consulting fee or other compensation for any services they render in order to effectuate the consummation of a business combination, other than the reimbursement, subject to approval of our board of directors, of out-of-pocket expenses, the monthly fee to Trillium Capital LLC, or Trillium, and fees that America’s Growth Capital, of which Mr. Howe, one of our directors, is Chief Executive Officer, may be entitled to as a result of any acquisition opportunities referred to us. 24 Table of Contents Any such arrangement between us and America’s Growth Capital or any other investment banking firm must be approved by a majority of our disinterested directors and will be described in the proxy statement delivered to our stockholders in connection with their approval of our initial business combination. We will not retain America’s Growth Capital unless they agree to waive any interest or claim to the monies in the trust account for the payment of any fees or other compensation earned by it if an initial business combination is not consummated. America’s Growth Capital is under no legal or contractual obligation to identify acquisition opportunities or perform any other services on our behalf and America’s Growth Capital may take actions that conflict with our interests. Mr. Howe, a director of ours, is Chief Executive Officer of America’s Growth Capital. Because of this relationship, Mr. Howe may, in the course of his financial services activities, help us to identify potential acquisition candidates. However, Mr. Howe and America’s Growth Capital are under no legal or contractual obligation to perform these or any other services on our behalf. Mr. Howe and America’s Growth Capital may present acquisition opportunities to others before they present these opportunities to us. Acquisition candidates brought to our attention through Mr. Howe may include clients of America’s Growth Capital and America’s Growth Capital may have contractual, fiduciary or other obligations to these clients which may be inconsistent with, or adverse to, our interests and the interests of our stockholders. In addition, nothing precludes Mr. Howe and America’s Growth Capital from representing, investing in or participating in other blank check entities or other companies that compete with us for acquisition candidates. Finally, while no such agreement or arrangement is currently in place or contemplated, America’s Growth Capital may be entitled to a fee in connection with our initial business combination which could lead to a conflict of interest for Mr. Howe. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If our common stock becomes subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock will be subject to these “penny stock” rules. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. Initially, we may only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single asset or property. The net proceeds from our IPO and the private placement (excluding $7,500,000 held in the trust account which represents the underwriters’ deferred discount) provided us with approximately $238,800,000 which is 25 Table of Contents held in trust and may be used by us to complete a business combination. We currently have no restrictions on our ability to seek additional funds through the sale of securities or through loans. As a consequence, we could seek to acquire a target business that has a fair market value significantly in excess of 80% of our net assets held in trust (net of taxes and amounts permitted to be disbursed for working capital purposes and excluding the amount held in the trust account representing the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such acquisition. Although as of the date of this annual report we have not engaged or retained, had any discussions with, or entered into any agreements with, any third party regarding any such potential financing transactions, other than with PNC, we could seek to fund such a business combination by raising additional funds through the sale of our securities or through loan arrangements. However, if we were to seek such additional funds, any such arrangement would only be consummated simultaneously with our consummation of a business combination. Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time. However, should our management elect to pursue more than one acquisition of target businesses simultaneously, our management could encounter difficulties in consummating all or a portion of such acquisitions due to a lack of adequate resources, including the inability of management to devote sufficient time to the due diligence, negotiation and documentation of each acquisition. Furthermore, even if we complete the acquisition of more than one target business at substantially the same time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate the operations of such target businesses. Accordingly, the prospects for our ability to effect our business strategy may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Furthermore, since our business combination may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or operating businesses at the same time and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their assets or businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies, and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the type of businesses that we may intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies in the business process outsourcing industry. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, or greater access to capital than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous target acquisitions that we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our IPO, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target acquisitions that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target acquisitions. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target acquisitions. Also, our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. 26 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our IPO and the private placement will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our IPO and the private placement prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in the course of searching for suitable target acquisition that we can afford to acquire, or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares of common stock from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing such as debt, equity or co-investment with other investors. We cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target acquisition candidate. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not in the trust account to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to such payment or otherwise), we may not have a sufficient amount of working capital available outside of the trust account to conduct due diligence and pay other expenses related to finding a suitable business combination without securing additional financing. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would liquidate the trust account, resulting in a loss of a portion of your investment. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund continuing operations and/or growth. The failure to secure additional financing if required could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to develop and grow, even if we consummate a business combination. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our founding stockholders control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our founding stockholders (including all of our officers, our former chief financial officer, strategic advisory council members and directors) collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock. This ownership interest, together with any other acquisitions of our shares of common stock (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow the founding stockholders to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. The interests of our founding stockholders and your interests may not always align and taking actions which require approval of a majority of our stockholders, such as selling the company, may be more difficult to accomplish. In the future, the founding stockholders may decide, for financial or other reasons, to purchase our securities in the open market or in private transactions in compliance with our insider trading policy. Any decision by our founding stockholders to purchase additional securities in the open market or private transactions will be based on the trading price of the securities and a determination that the purchase represents an attractive investment opportunity. If any of our founding stockholders purchase additional shares, each has agreed, in connection with the vote required for our initial business combination, to vote all shares of common stock then owned by them, and owned by them prior to the IPO, in the same manner as a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock issued in our IPO, other than the shares of common stock owned by the founding stockholders. Therefore, the acquisition by our founding stockholders of shares of our common stock in the open market will not influence a stockholder vote in connection with the approval of a business combination. 27 Table of Contents If we redeem our public warrants, the founder warrants, which are non-redeemable, could provide the purchasers thereof with the ability to realize a larger gain than the public warrant holders. The warrants held by our public warrant holders may be called for redemption at any time after the warrants become exercisable: • in whole and not in part; • at a price of $0.01 per warrant at any time after the warrant becomes exercisable; • upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption to each warrant holder; and • if, and only if, the last sale price of the common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share, for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending on the third business day prior to the notice of redemption to warrant holders. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless the warrants comprising the units sold in our IPO and the shares of common stock underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. As a result of the founder warrants not being subject to the redemption features that our publicly-held warrants are subject to, holders of the founder warrants, or their permitted transferees, could realize a larger gain than our public warrant holders in the event we redeem our public warrants. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with our IPO, we issued warrants to purchase up to 31,250,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target acquisition. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares of common stock issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target acquisition. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings of our securities. In addition, our founding stockholders are subject to a lock-up agreement related to their warrants and shares for a period of 1 year from the consummation of a business combination with an approved acquisition target. After such time, they will be able to exercise such warrants or sell such shares, subject to the usual securities regulations, which exercise or sale could have a negative impact on the price of the public warrants and public shares. A market for our securities may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. Although our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, an active trading market for our securities may never develop or, if developed, it may not be sustained. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be established or sustained. If our founding stockholders exercise their registration rights, and/or if our underwriters elect to exercise their unit purchase option, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of the registration rights and the unit purchase option may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our founding stockholders are entitled to require us to register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which its shares of common stock or warrants are released from escrow, which, except 28 Table of Contents in limited circumstances, will not be before one year from the consummation of a business combination. If our founding stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock beneficially owned by them as of the date of this annual report, then there will be an additional 7,812,500 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. Further, on October 17, 2007, we issued an aggregate 7,500,000 founder warrants to certain of our founding stockholders that are identical to the warrants sold in our IPO, except that (i) such founder warrants were placed in escrow and will not be released before, except in limited circumstances, one year from the consummation of a business combination, (ii) such founder warrants are non-redeemable as long as the holders hold them, (iii) such founder warrants are exercisable in the absence of an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock underlying the warrants, (iv) such founder warrants may be exercised on a cashless basis and (v) such founder warrants were purchased pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and will become freely tradable only after they are registered pursuant to a registration rights agreement signed prior to the consummation of our IPO. If all of the founder warrants are exercised, there will be an additional 7,500,000 shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. In addition, we sold to our underwriters a unit purchase option to purchase up to a total of 1,562,500 units identical to those units offered in our IPO, except that the warrants issued as part of the unit purchase option will be exercisable at $7.20 per share. Although the unit purchase option and its underlying securities have been registered on the registration statement for our IPO, the option grants holders demand and “piggy back” registration rights for periods of five and seven years, respectively, from October 17, 2007. These rights apply to all of the securities directly and indirectly issuable upon exercise of the option. If this unit purchase option is exercised, and all of the underlying warrants are also exercised, there will be an additional 3,125,000 shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional numbers of securities eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, or we may be required to incur additional expenses if we are unable to dissolve after the expiration of the allotted time period. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; • restrictions on borrowing; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities, including warrants. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. 29 Table of Contents We do not believe that our principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trust agent only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 with a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the holdings of the trust account to these instruments, we believe we avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Our IPO was not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities or money market funds. The trust account and the purchase of government securities and money market funds for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, liquidation and return of the funds held in this trust account to our public stockholders. If we are deemed to be an investment company at any time, we will be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940 which would require additional expenses for which we have not budgeted. Furthermore, if we are deemed to be an investment company, our contracts may be voided and we may be unable to consummate a business combination. Uncertainties in management’s assessment of a target business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. It is possible that, following our initial acquisition, uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities of, acquisition or other transaction candidates could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. The potential loss of key customers, management and employees of a target business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. It is possible that, following our initial acquisition, the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. The lack of synergy from an acquisition could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. It is possible that, following our initial acquisition, the inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. In addition, if we were to acquire a previously privately owned company, it most likely will incur additional costs in order to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other public company requirements, which in turn would reduce our earnings. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others advisors. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control, such as public stockholders who own 30% or more of the shares of common stock issued in our IPO voting against the proposed business combination and, other than our founding stockholders, opting to 30 Table of Contents have us redeem their stock for a pro rata share of the trust account, even if a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock issued in our IPO voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Our directors may not be considered “independent” and we thus may not have the benefit of independent directors examining our financial statements and the priority of expenses incurred on our behalf subject to reimbursement. Our founding stockholders hold an aggregate of 7,812,500 shares of common stock which they purchased for a purchase price of approximately $0.0056 per share, which is significantly lower than the offering price. We believe the current equity value for these shares is significantly lower than the initial $8.00 per share offering price because the holders of these shares will not be able to sell or transfer them while such shares remain in escrow, except in certain limited circumstances (such as transfers to relatives and trusts for estate planning purposes) and these shares are not entitled to any proceeds in case we liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination. No salary or other compensation will be paid to our officers or directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. Although we believe that four (4) of the members of our board of directors are “independent” under the rules of the American Stock Exchange, because our directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, as well as traveling to and from the offices, service centers or similar locations of prospective target acquisitions to examine their operations, it is likely that state securities administrators would take the position that we do not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not any directors are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. The American Stock Exchange may de-list our securities from trading on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our units, common stock and warrants are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. Additionally, in connection with a business combination, the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are unable to list our securities on another exchange our securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, or “pink sheets”. As a result, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including but not limited to the following: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; • a more limited amount of news coverage for our company; • a reduced liquidity for our securities; 31 Table of Contents • a limited amount of financial analyst coverage for our company; • a decreased ability to obtain new financing or issue new securities on favorable terms in the future; • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and • a decreased ability of our security holders to sell their securities in certain states. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as “covered securities.” Since we are listed on the American Stock Exchange, our securities are covered securities. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of our securities, the federal statute does allow the states to investigate a company if there is a suspicion of fraud. If there is a finding of fraudulent activity the states may regulate or bar the sale of covered securities in a particular case. While we are not aware of a state having used these powers to prohibit or restrict the sale of securities issued by blank check companies generally, certain state securities regulators view blank check companies unfavorably and might use these powers, or threaten to use these powers, to hinder the sale of securities of blank check companies in their states. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our charter and by-laws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at any annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since our “staggered board” would prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Moreover, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock. These provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Limitations on a target business’s ability to protect or enforce its intellectual property rights, including its trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage. A target business’s products or services, and the processes it uses to produce or provide them, might have been granted U.S. patent protection, might have patent applications pending or might be trade secrets. After a business combination, our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. Depending on the target business or businesses that we acquire, it is likely that we will have to protect copyrights, trademarks, patents, and domain names in a significant number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful in every location. In addition, certain countries where a target acquisition may conduct its business, such as China, have rules governing intellectual property which may be less stringent that those in the United States. Despite our efforts to protect that proprietary technology and those rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of those proprietary rights or deter independent development of technologies that compete with the business we acquire. With respect to certain proprietary rights of the target business or businesses that we will acquire, such as trademarks and copyrighted materials, we expect that the target business or businesses will have entered into license agreements in the past and will continue to enter into such agreements in the future. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of such target business or businesses’ proprietary rights or cause harm to such target business or businesses’ reputation. Our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets or may file patent applications or obtain patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. 32 Table of Contents We may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components that a target business uses in order to provide its services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running its core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase costs. If a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular product or service, which would reduce our post business combination revenue. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. Risks Associated with the Global Business Process Outsourcing Industry The BPO industry is competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability upon consummation of a business combination. The BPO industry is rapidly evolving and competitive. Many of the competitors we will face upon consummation of a business combination may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources than we do. In addition, the management of our competitors may have greater operating resources and experience in their respective industries. Some of these competitors may also offer a wider range of services than we can and have greater name recognition and a larger client base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. If we are unable to compete effectively following a business combination, our business, financial condition, results or operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If we are alleged to have infringed on the intellectual property or other rights of third parties, it could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. If, following a business combination, third parties allege that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights, privacy rights or publicity rights or have defamed them, we could become a party to litigation. These claims and any resulting lawsuits could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights and restrict our ability to publish and distribute the infringing or defaming content. Our failure to meet client demands could result in lost revenues and increased expenses. Clients that outsource business processes frequently face significant uncertainties in forecasting the demand for the outsourced services. Limitations on the size of the facilities, number of personnel and availability of materials could make it difficult to meet clients’ unforecasted demand. Any failure to meet clients’ specifications, capacity requirements or expectations could result in lost revenue, lower client satisfaction, financial penalties under the contracts with one or more such clients, negative perceptions in the marketplace and potential claims for damages. If we are not able to establish client sites where requested, or if we fail to retain key clients at established sites, our client relationships, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Clients that outsource business processes frequently request that providers add capacity or open a service facility in locations near their sites. If we elect not to add required capacity at sites near existing clients or establish sites near existing or potential clients, clients may decide to seek alternate service providers. In addition, if we lose a significant client of a particular site or open or expand a site with the expectation of business that does not materialize, operations at that site could become unprofitable or materially less efficient. As a result, we may need to down-size the service location or even close it, which would most likely cause us to 33 Table of Contents incur restructuring and severance-related costs. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The intellectual property of our clients may be damaged, misappropriated, stolen or lost while in our possession, subjecting us to litigation and other adverse consequences. In the course of providing services to our clients, we may have possession of or access to their intellectual property, including databases, software masters, certificates of authenticity and similar valuable intellectual property. If our clients’ intellectual property is damaged, misappropriated, stolen or lost, we could suffer: • claims under client agreements or applicable law, or other liability for damages; • delayed or lost revenue due to adverse client reaction; • negative publicity; and • litigation that could be costly and time-consuming. We are likely to depend on third-party software, systems and services. Our business and operations may rely on third parties to provide products and services, such as IT products and services, or shipping and transportation services. We may experience operational problems attributable to the installation, implementation, integration, performance, features or functionality of third-party software, access to communication networks and fiber optics, hosted environments, systems and services. Any interruption in the availability or usage of the products and services provided by third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Proposed Merger with Stream If the merger’s benefits do not meet the expectations of the marketplace, investors, financial analysts or industry analysts, the market price of our securities may decline. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the merger if we do not perform as expected or if we do not otherwise achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, the marketplace, investors, financial analysts or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decreasing stock price, and we may not be able to raise future capital, if necessary, in the equity markets. As a result of the merger, our stockholders will be solely dependent on a single business. As a result of the merger, our stockholders will be solely dependent upon the performance of Stream and its business. Stream will be subject to a number of risks that relate generally to the outsourcing industry and other risks that relate specifically to Stream. We will have less working capital, and may require additional financing if a significant portion of our stockholders exercise their conversion right. Our public stockholders have the right to vote against the merger and elect to convert their shares into cash upon consummation of the merger. If no holders elect to convert their shares, our available cash is expected to be approximately $120,000,000 upon the closing, assuming we are able, as contemplated by a commitment letter entered into with Stream’s existing bank lender, PNC to replace Stream’s outstanding indebtedness upon the closing. However, our commitment letter includes numerous conditions, some of which are outside our control, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to close the replacement credit facility contemplated by such 34 Table of Contents letter. If conversion rights are exercised with respect to 9,374,999 shares (representing 29.99% of the outstanding shares of our common stock other than those held by our founding stockholders), the maximum potential conversion cost would be approximately $73,874,992. If holders of 9,374,999 shares were to elect to convert their shares into cash and we are unable, for any reason, to obtain our contemplated credit facility to replace the outstanding indebtedness of Stream (other than capital leases) that would otherwise become payable upon closing, we would be required to obtain other debt and/or equity financing totaling approximately $50,000,000 to consummate the merger. We have no reason to believe we would not be able to obtain such financing, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so. Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. Outstanding redeemable warrants to purchase an aggregate of 31,250,000 shares of common stock issued in the IPO (excluding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,500,000 shares of common stock issued to our founding stockholders in a private placement completed prior to the closing of the IPO) will become exercisable after the consummation of the merger. Our outstanding warrants have an exercise price of $6.00 per share. As of March 14, 2008, the closing price of our shares traded on the American Stock Exchange was $7.48 per share. To the extent that all outstanding in-the-money warrants were exercised and none of the shares of common stock subject to conversion were converted we would have had 77,812,500 shares of common stock outstanding (including the 9,374,999 shares subject to possible conversion) on this date representing an increase in our common shares outstanding of 38,750,000 shares. In addition, we sold to our underwriters in the IPO an option to purchase 1,562,500 units at $9.60 per unit. The exercise of this option, and the exercise of the warrants included in the units issuable upon exercise of this option, would lead to further dilution and a potential increase in the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders fail to vote or abstain from voting on the merger, or fail to deliver their shares to our transfer agent, they may not exercise their conversion rights to convert their shares of our common stock into a pro rata portion of the trust account. Our stockholders holding common stock issued in the IPO who affirmatively vote against the merger may, at the same time, demand that we convert their shares into cash equal to a pro rata portion of the funds in the trust account (net of taxes and interest earned on the trust account that has been released to us as of that time and excluding the amount held in the trust account representing our underwriters’ deferred discount). Our stockholders who seek to exercise this conversion right must affirmatively vote against the merger and demand conversion of their shares no later than the close of the vote on the merger and deliver their stock certificates (either physically or electronically) to our transfer agent after the closing of the merger. Any of our stockholders who fail to vote, who abstain from voting on the merger or who fail to deliver his stock certificate may not exercise his conversion rights and will not receive a pro rata portion of the trust account for conversion of such stockholder’s shares. Our ability to request indemnification from Stream for damages arising out of the merger is limited. At the closing of the merger, 812,500 of our units and $6,700,000 in cash of the merger consideration will be deposited in escrow to provide a fund for our indemnification under the merger agreement by Stream. Claims for indemnification may only be asserted by us once the damages exceed $500,000 and recoveries are limited to the escrow fund (as defined in the merger agreement), except in the case of actual fraud. Accordingly, we will not be entitled to indemnification even if Stream is found to have breached its representations and warranties and covenants contained in the merger agreement if such breach would only result in damages to us of less than $500,000. Certain claims against the escrow account, including claims relating to any future earn-out payments arising from Stream’s acquisition of Infowavz International Private Limited in India, are not subject to the deductible of $500,000. 35 Table of Contents Our directors, executive officers, former chief financial officer and strategic advisory council members own shares of our common stock and warrants and have other interests in the merger that are different from yours. If the merger is not approved and we subsequently dissolve and liquidate because we do not consummate an alternative business combination, the warrants held by them will become worthless. Consequently, their interests may have influenced their decision to approve the business combination with Stream. Our directors, officers (including our former chief financial officer) and strategic advisory council members either directly or beneficially own an aggregate of 7,812,500 shares of common stock and 7,500,000 warrants to purchase common stock that they purchased in a private placement completed prior to the closing of the IPO for a total consideration of approximately $7,500,000. These warrants are subject to lock-up agreements, and subject to certain exceptions, may not be sold, assigned or transferred until at least one year after we consummate a business combination. In light of the amount of consideration paid, our directors, officers, former chief financial officer and strategic advisory council members will likely benefit from the completion of the merger, even if the merger causes the market price of our securities to significantly decrease. In addition, the holders of these securities are not entitled to receive any of the cash proceeds that may be distributed upon our liquidation with respect to the shares they acquired prior to the IPO. Therefore, if the merger is not adopted and we subsequently dissolve and liquidate because we do not consummate an alternative business combination, the shares and warrants held directly or beneficially by our directors, officers, former chief financial officer and strategic advisory council members will be worthless. This may influence their motivation for promoting the merger and/or soliciting proxies for the adoption of the merger. In addition, if we liquidate prior to the consummation of a business combination, our officers and former chief financial officer will be personally liable under certain circumstances (for example, for claims of vendors, service providers or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, or by claims of prospective target businesses for fees and expenses of third parties that we agree in writing to pay in the event we do not consummate a combination with such target business that they have not agreed to waive) to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of certain vendors, service providers, other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us or prospective target businesses. The exercise of our directors’ and officers’ discretion in agreeing to changes or waivers in the terms of the merger may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether such changes to the terms of the merger or waivers of conditions are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. In the period leading up to the closing of the merger, events may occur that, pursuant to the merger agreement, would require us to agree to amendments to the merger agreement, to consent to certain actions taken by Stream or to waive rights that we are entitled to under the merger agreement. Such events could arise because of changes in the course of Stream’s business, a request by Stream to undertake actions that would otherwise be prohibited by the terms of the merger agreement or the occurrence of other events that would have a material adverse effect on Stream’s business and would entitle us to terminate the merger agreement. In any of such circumstances, it would be discretionary on us, acting through our board of directors, to grant its consent or waive its rights. The existence of the financial and personal interests of the directors described in the preceding risk factor may result in a conflict of interest on the part of one or more of the directors between what he may believe is best for us and what he may believe is best for himself in determining whether or not to take the requested action. The price of our common stock after the merger might be less than what you originally paid for your shares of common stock prior to the merger. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the merger if: • the market for common shares of companies in our industry is volatile; • Stream does not perform as expected; 36 Table of Contents • there are mergers, consolidations or strategic alliances in the BPO industry; • market conditions in the BPO industry fluctuate; • we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; • the effect of the merger on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts; or • there is a change in the general state of the capital markets. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decreasing stock price and we may not be able to raise future capital, if necessary, in the equity markets. We may have insufficient time or funds to complete an alternate business combination if the merger is not adopted by our stockholders or the merger is otherwise not completed. Pursuant to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we must liquidate and dissolve if we do not complete a business combination with a business having a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets held in trust (net of taxes and amounts permitted to be disbursed for working capital purposes and excluding the amount held in the trust account representing our underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such acquisition, by October 17, 2009. If the merger is not adopted by our stockholders, we will not complete the merger and may not be able to consummate an alternate business combination within the required time frame, either due to insufficient time or insufficient operating funds. The completion of the merger could result in disruptions in business, loss of clients or contracts or other adverse effects. The completion of the merger may cause disruptions, including potential loss of clients and other business partners, in the business of Stream, which could have material adverse effects on the combined company’s business and operations. Although we believe that Stream’s business relationships are and will remain stable following the merger, Stream’s clients and other business partners, in response to the completion of the merger, may adversely change or terminate their relationships with the combined company, which could have a material adverse effect on the business of Stream or the combined company following the merger. We do not have any operations and Stream has never operated as a public company. Fulfilling Stream’s obligations as a public company after the merger will be expensive and time consuming. Stream, as a private company, has not been required to prepare or file periodic and other reports with the SEC under applicable federal securities laws or to comply with the requirements of the federal securities laws applicable to public companies, or to document and assess the effectiveness of its internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although we have maintained disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required under the federal securities laws with respect to our activities, we have not been required to establish and maintain such disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting as will be required with respect to a public company with substantial operations. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, we will be required to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations will require significant time and resources from our management and our finance and accounting staff and will significantly increase our legal, insurance and financial compliance costs. We currently estimate that we will incur between $500,000 and $1,000,000 in costs associated with complying with Sarbanes-Oxley and related rules and regulations of the SEC. As a result of the increased costs associated with being a public company after the merger, our operating income as a percentage of revenue will likely be lower. 37 Table of Contents We must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a relatively short timeframe. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established control framework and to report on our management’s conclusion as to the effectiveness of these internal controls over financial reporting beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We will also be required to have an independent registered public accounting firm test the internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008 and subsequent years. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect future results of operations and our stock price. We may incur significant costs to comply with these requirements. We may in the future discover areas of internal controls over financial reporting that need improvement, particularly with respect to any businesses acquired in the future. There can be no assurance that remedial measures will result in adequate internal controls over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to implement the required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our auditors are unable to provide an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. The loss of key executives could adversely affect our ability to integrate our business with Stream’s operations. The success of our integration with Stream will be dependent upon the continued service of a relatively small group of our key executives including, Mr. Murray, our chairman, chief executive officer, president and interim chief financial officer. Although we currently intend to retain our existing officers and enter into employment or other compensation arrangements with them following the proposed merger, the terms of which have not yet been determined, we cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. We do not have employment contracts with any of our current executives. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these executives could adversely affect our ability to integrate our business with Stream’s operations and manage the business going forward. We expect to incur significant costs associated with the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, which will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for other corporate purposes. We expect to incur significant costs associated with the merger, whether or not the merger is completed. We currently estimate that we will incur approximately $3,000,000 in costs associated with the merger for professional fees, including legal, accounting, printing, proxy solicitation, regulatory and other fees as well as the fees associated with the fairness opinion. These costs will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for other corporate purposes. There is no assurance that the actual costs will not exceed our estimates. We may incur additional material charges reflecting additional costs associated with the merger in fiscal quarters subsequent to the quarter in which the merger was consummated. There is no assurance that the significant costs associated with the merger will prove to be justified in light of the benefit ultimately realized. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 