ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to buy our common stock. It is possible that risks and uncertainties not listed below may arise or become material in the future and affect our business. A Return To Recessionary Conditions Could Result In Increases In Our Level Of Non-Performing Loans And/Or Reduce Demand For Our Products And Services, Which Would Lead To Lower Revenue, Higher Loan Losses And Lower Earnings. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States’ subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Concerns over the United States’ credit rating (which was recently downgraded by Standard & Poor’s), the European sovereign debt crisis, and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our levels of nonperforming and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities and the expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Like many savings institutions, our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid thereby requiring us to reinvest those cash flows at lower interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” 38 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2011, the fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, consisting of agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt obligations, municipal obligations and preferred stock, totaled $221.8 million. Unrealized net gains on these available-for-sale securities totaled $11.8 million at December 31, 2011 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity using income simulation models that estimate the change in United Bank’s net interest income over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net income at risk measures the risk of a decline in earnings due to potential short-term and long term changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2011, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the model projects that we would experience a 0.29% decrease in net interest income over the following 12 months. Our Increased Emphasis on Commercial Real Estate and Commercial and Industrial Lending May Expose Us to Increased Lending Risks. At December 31, 2011, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $450.2 million, or 40.1% of our total loans, and our portfolio of commercial and industrial loans totaled $176.1 million, or 15.7% of our total loans. These loans have increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio in recent years and generally have more risk and require a commensurately higher loan loss allowance than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate or commercial and industrial loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate or commercial and industrial loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Because we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses because of the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any such increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. Our Emphasis On Residential Mortgage Loans and Home Equity Loans And Lines Of Credit Exposes Us To Lending Risks. At December 31, 2011, $314.8 million, or 28.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans and $135.5 million, or 12.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans and lines of credit. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans and lines of credit to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Income From Secondary Mortgage Market Operations is Volatile, and We May Incur Losses or Charges With Respect to Our Secondary Mortgage Market Operations Which Would Negatively Affect Our Earnings. We generally sell in the secondary market the fixed-rate residential mortgage loans that we originate, earning non-interest income in the form of gains on sale. When interest rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall and may reduce the number of loans available for sale. When interest rates fall, the demand for fixed-rate mortgage loans also tends to fall and may reduce the number of loans available for sale. In addition to interest rate levels, weak or deteriorating economic conditions also tend to reduce loan demand. Although we sell 39 Table of Contents loans in the secondary market without recourse, we are required to give customary representations and warranties to the buyers. If we breach those representations and warranties, the buyers can require us to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase. Because we generally retain the servicing rights on the loans we sell in the secondary market, we are required to record a mortgage servicing right asset, which we test quarterly for impairment. The value of mortgage servicing rights tend to increase with rising interest rates and to decrease with falling interest rates. If we are required to take an impairment charge, that would hurt our earnings. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume and trends in our non-performing and classified loans and charge-offs. We also evaluate economic conditions and general market collateral valuations. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our allowance for loan losses was 0.99% of total loans and 131.7% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2011, compared to 0.93% of total loans and 105.86% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2010. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further Declines in the Value of Certain Investment Securities Could Require Write-Downs, Which Would Reduce Our Earnings. At December 31, 2011, our investment portfolio included $1.6 million in trust preferred securities and $15.0 million in municipal bonds. In addition, we have two cost basis investments totaling $1.0 million. We review our investment securities portfolio at each quarter and reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its current carrying value, we are required to assess whether the decline is other than temporary. During 2011 and 2010 management determined that an impairment indicator existed on two cost basis investments and that the investments suffered impairment that was considered other- than- temporary. The cost basis of the investments were written down by $99,000 and $145,000, in 2011 and 2010, respectively, to fair value as a new cost basis and the write down was accounted for as a realized loss and was included in earnings. During 2009 we recognized an $82,000 charge for the other-than-temporary impairment of a certain trust preferred security. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an impairment that is other than temporary. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the expected cash flows, failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. An other-than-temporary impairment write-down would reduce our earnings. Recently Enacted Regulatory Reform May Have a Material Impact on Our Operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructured the regulation of depository 40 Table of Contents institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which formerly regulated United Bank, was merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies became regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws that was formerly accorded federally chartered depository institutions was reduced as well, and State Attorneys General now have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposed consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include the entering into written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plan, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and We May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, our primary federal regulators, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Increased and/or Special FDIC Assessments Will Hurt Our Earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $538,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $4.8 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. 41 Table of Contents Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. We face intense competition in making loans and attracting deposits. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings and cooperative institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. The competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loan and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which could reduce net interest income. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. If Our Investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston is Classified as Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired or as Permanently Impaired, Our Earnings and Stockholders’ Equity Would Decrease. We owned $15.4 million in common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston at December 31, 2011. We hold this stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston’s advance program. There is no market for our Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston common stock. Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, could be substantially diminished. If the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks, there is a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston common stock could be impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Our Wholesale Funding Sources May Prove Insufficient to Replace Deposits at Maturity and Support Our Future Growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank, reverse repurchase agreements, brokered CDs and proceeds from the sale of loans and securities and liquidity resources of the holding company. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Our Future Growth May Require Us to Raise Additional Capital in the Future, But That Capital May Not Be Available When It Is Needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We believe that our current capital levels will satisfy our regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, 42 Table of Contents if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest in our common stock could be diluted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 43 Table of Contents 