D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business is susceptible to fluctuations in the real estate market of China, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We conduct our real estate services business primarily in China. Our business depends substantially on the conditions of the PRC real estate market. Demand for private residential real estate in China has grown rapidly in the recent decade but such growth is often coupled with volatility in market conditions and fluctuation in real estate prices. Fluctuations of supply and demand in China’s real estate market are caused by economic, social, political and other factors. For example, the announcement and implementation of restrictive measures in early 2011, combined with further credit tightening, resulted in a severe downturn in the real estate market with a fall of overall transaction volume in many major cities in 2011 and 2012. In its continuing efforts to curb real estate price, the Chinese government released further restrictive policies in 2012 and early 2013. These measures have affected and may continue to affect the growth of the PRC real estate market. See “—Risks Related to Our Business—Our business may be materially and adversely affected by government measures aimed at China’s real estate industry.” To the extent fluctuations in the real estate market adversely affect real estate transaction volumes or prices, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by government measures aimed at China’s real estate industry. The real estate industry in China is subject to government regulations, including measures that are intended to control real estate prices. Since January 2011, PRC government agencies have issued a number of rules to cool down the real estate market, which include: · minimum down payments for the first self-use housing unit purchased by a family with a gross construction area of more than 90 square meters must be no less than 30% of the purchase price; · minimum down payments for the second housing unit purchased by a family was increased from 40% to 50%, and then further increased to 60%, and the loan interest rate must be no less than 110% of benchmark lending interest rate; · all municipalities directly under the central government, all provincial capitals and other cities where the local housing prices are deemed to be too high or to have risen too fast, are required to temporarily suspend the sale of housing units to families with registered local permanent residences that already own two or more housing units, families without registered local permanent residences that already own one or more housing units, and families without registered local permanent residences that cannot provide evidence of their local payment of taxes or social insurance premiums for a required period; · business tax is imposed and calculated on the full sales revenues for the sale of all housing units held for less than five years, and on the difference between the sales revenue and the amount paid for the housing unit for the sale of non-ordinary housing units which were purchased five or more years ago; · real estate property tax pilot projects were launched in Shanghai and Chongqing. Local regulations require a real property tax to be imposed on certain local housing units purchased on or after January 28, 2011, at a current tax rate of 0.6% in Shanghai and at a tax rate ranging from 0.5% to 1.2% in Chongqing; and · governments of most major cities are required to set up and make public their target for controlling the price of local, newly built, residential housing units for the current year within the first season. Accordingly, many cities, including Shanghai, Beijing, Chongqing and Shenzhen, have started such exercise to announce their respective price control targets for each year since 2011. 6 Table of Contents In late February and March 2013, the PRC government issued the “New Five Policies” for administration of the housing market and detailed implementation rules, which revealed the PRC government’s strong determination to curb the increase of housing prices by requiring more stringent implementation of housing price control measures. For example, in cities where housing unit sales have already been subject to restrictions, if the local housing supply is not sufficient so that the housing prices are rising too fast, local governments are required to take more stringent measures to restrict housing units from being sold to those families who own one or more housing units. In cities where the housing prices are rising too fast, the minimum down payment for the second housing unit purchased by a family may be further increased from 60% and the loan interest rate may be raised to be more than 110% of benchmark lending interest rate, as the local housing price control measures require. Following the request of the central government, Beijing, Shanghai and other major cities in China have announced detailed regulations for the New Five Policies in late March 2013, to further cool down local real estate markets. Such measures and policies by the government have caused a reduction in transactions in the real estate market. While these measures and policies remain in effect, they may continue to depress the real estate market, dissuade would-be purchasers from making purchases, reduce transaction volume, cause a decline in average selling prices, and prevent developers from raising the capital they need and increase developers’ costs to start new projects. In addition, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not adopt new measures in the future that may result in lower growth rates in the real estate industry. Frequent changes in government policies may also create uncertainty that could discourage investment in real estate. Our business may be materially and adversely affected as a result of decreased transaction volumes or real estate prices that may result from government policies. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy in 2012 . There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. In addition, there have been concerns about the territorial disputes involving China in Asia and the economic effects. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Although the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past decade, that growth may not continue, as evidenced by the slowing of the growth of the Chinese economy since 2012.Any severe or prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital markets to meet liquidity needs. Failure to maintain or enhance our brands or image could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We believe our “E-House” brand is associated with a leading integrated real estate services company with consistent high-quality services among both real estate developers and individual real estate buyers in China. Our “CRIC” brand is associated with a leading real estate information and consulting service provider and the “Leju” brand is associated with a leading real estate online platform in China. Our brands are integral to our sales and marketing efforts. Our continued success in maintaining and enhancing our brands and image depends to a large extent on our ability to satisfy customer needs by further developing and maintaining quality of services across our operations, as well as our ability to respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to satisfy customer needs or if our public image or reputation were otherwise diminished, our business transactions with our customers may decline, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of expanding into new geographical markets in China, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We plan to continue to expand our business into new geographical areas in China. As China is a large and diverse market, consumer trends and demands may vary significantly by region and our experience in the markets in which we currently operate may not be applicable in other parts of China. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our experience to expand into other parts of China. When we enter new markets, we may face intense competition from companies with greater experience or an established presence in the targeted geographical areas or from other companies with similar expansion targets. In addition, our business model may not be successful in new and untested markets and markets with a different legal and business environment, such as Hong Kong and Macau. Therefore, we may not be able to grow our revenues in the new cities we enter into due to the substantial costs involved. 7 Table of Contents If we fail to successfully execute the business plans for our strategic alliances and other new business initiatives, our results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Since 2008, we have formed strategic alliances with a number of leading real estate developers in China including Evergrande Real Estate Group, or Evergrande. The success of these strategic alliances depends on, among others, our successful sales and marketing of the projects and properties, the developers’ ability to make timely delivery of properties in satisfactory quality and quantity and purchasers’ ability to obtain financing and complete their purchase obligations. If we fail to successfully market and sell these new properties, or if purchasers fail to complete their purchase obligations for any reason, we may not be able to continue the existing strategic alliances or enter into new strategic relationships with leading real estate developers and our results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. In August 2010, we launched Baidu’s real estate website, house.baidu.com, and home furnishing website, jiaju.baidu.com, to offer search-based advertising for China’s real estate industry pursuant to our strategic cooperation agreement with Baidu, which expires in March 2015. In August 2011, we became Baidu’s premier strategic online real estate partner and obtained the exclusive right, through March 2015, to sell Baidu’s real estate Brand-Link product, a form of keyword advertising. If we are unable to renew our agreements with Baidu when they expire on favorable terms, or at all, or if Baidu reduces or terminates its support for, or cooperation with respect to, our real estate online operations, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In August 2010, we started a new business initiative to focus on providing integrated services in the non-residential real estate market, such as office and commercial real estate. Our experience and expertise have been concentrated in the residential real estate sector. Failure to establish a meaningful presence and brand in the non-residential sector and generate revenues and profits could adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. In November 2013 we launched version 4.0 of our Leju real estate e-commerce platform, which is designed to enable the integration of real estate e-commerce with financial services. As part of this new platform, we formed a strategic venture with CITIC, pursuant to which CITIC introduced “Leju Loan”, an innovative financial product that aims to provide added liquidity and improve the overall purchasing power of home buyers through our online platform. In addition, through our subsidiary, Leju, we have established strategic cooperation relationships with SINA’s Weibo and Tencent’s Weixin, two of China’s leading social media platforms. We may also explore other new initiatives to increase public awareness of and further strengthen our Leju real estate e-commerce platform. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our strategic venture with CITIC or maintain our strategic cooperation relationships with SINA’s Weibo and Tencent’s Weixin, or that we will be able to execute on any other new initiatives successfully and achieve the expected results. Our business faces risks associated with the application of the e-commerce business model to the real estate industry. Our e-commerce business was established in 2011 and became an integral part of our online real estate service operations following its rapid growth in 2012 and 2013. The business of providing these e-commerce services is still relatively new and evolving, and its growth depends on our ability to manage it effectively. Although we generally have been able to maintain contractual arrangements with third-party property developers who allow us to sell discount coupons to prospective real estate purchasers on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our services could diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. If we cannot manage our growth effectively and efficiently, our results of operations or profitability could be adversely affected. Our revenues increased 58.1% to $731.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $462.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. We intend to continue to expand our operations. This expansion has placed, and will continue to place, substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological and other resources. Our planned expansion will also place significant demands on us to maintain the quality of our services to ensure that our brands do not suffer as a result of any deviations, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our services. In order to manage and support our growth, we must continue to improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain additional qualified real estate service professionals as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified personnel and integrate new expansion into our operations. As a result, our quality of service may deteriorate and our results of operations or profitability could be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We may lose our competitive advantage if we fail to obtain and maintain accurate, comprehensive and reliable data in our CRIC system or prevent disruptions or failure in the performance of our CRIC system. We have devoted substantial resources to developing, maintaining and updating our proprietary real estate information database and analysis system, which we refer to as the CRIC system. Our ability to provide consistent high-quality services and maintain our competitive advantage relies in large part on the accuracy, comprehensiveness and reliability of the data contained in our CRIC system. The task of establishing and maintaining accurate and reliable data is challenging. We rely on third-party data providers for a significant amount of the information in our CRIC system. While we attempt to ensure the accuracy of our data by using multiple sources and performing quality control checks, some of the data provided to us may be inaccurate. If our data, including the data we obtain from third parties, is not current, accurate, comprehensive or reliable, we could experience reduced demand for our services or be subject to legal claims by our customers, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, our staff use integrated standard internal processes to update our CRIC system. Any inefficiencies, errors or technical problems with related applications could reduce the quality of our data, which may result in reduced demand for our services and a decrease in our revenues. Any frequent or recurring disruption or failure in the performance of our CRIC system could also adversely affect the quality of our services and damage our reputation and our effort to successfully market the CRIC system. Our system is vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, fires, floods, earthquakes, hacking or other attempts to disrupt our systems, and similar events. Our servers, which are located in Shanghai, may also be vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Our disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, the quality of our services and our reputation could be harmed. The steps we need to take to increase the reliability of our CRIC system and to maintain complete backups may be costly, which could reduce our operating margin, and such steps may not reduce the frequency or duration of system failures and service interruptions. If we are unable to compete successfully, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We encounter intense competition in each of our business segments on a national, regional and local level. Competition in the industry is primarily based on quality of services, brand name recognition, geographic coverage, commission rates or service fees, and range of services. As compared to real estate development, providing real estate services does not require significant capital commitments. This low barrier to entry allows new competitors to enter our markets with relative ease. New and existing competitors may offer competitive rates, greater convenience or superior services, which could attract customers away from us, resulting in lower revenues for our operations. Competition among real estate services companies may cause a decrease in commission rates or service fees we receive and higher costs to attract or retain talented employees. Although we are one of the largest real estate agency companies in China, our relative competitive position varies significantly by service type and geographic area. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively, maintain our current fee arrangements or margin levels or ensure that we will not encounter increased competition. Some of our competitors, such as Hopefluent Group Holdings Limited and SYSWIN Inc., may have smaller aggregate businesses than us, but may be more established and have greater market presence and brand name recognition on a local or regional basis. We are also subject to competition from other large national and international firms such as World Union Real Estate Consultancy (China) Ltd., Jones Lang LaSalle, Centaline Group and SouFun Holdings Limited. These firms may have more financial or other resources than us. If we fail to compete effectively, our business operations and financial condition will suffer. In addition, we expect more companies to enter the real estate online service industry in China and a wider range of real estate online services to be introduced. As the real estate online services industry in China is relatively new and constantly evolving, existing or future competitors of our real estate online business may be able to better position themselves to compete as the industry matures. The current competitors of our real estate online business include general internet portals, such as sohu.com, vertically integrated real estate internet portals, such as soufun.com and anjuke.com, certain specialized or local websites, and traditional advertising media. Some of these websites may have a larger user base, better brand recognition or stronger market influence. It is also possible that websites with large traffic may decide to provide real estate-related listing and other online services. Moreover, regionally and locally focused websites providing regional real estate listings together with localized services have offered and may continue to offer strong competition in the regions that we operate. 9 Table of Contents Our results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate due to seasonal variations in the real estate market and the non-recurring nature of our services provided to real estate developers. Our operating income and earnings have historically been substantially lower during the first quarter than other quarters. This results from the relatively low level of real estate activities during the winter and the Chinese New Year holiday period, which falls within the first quarter each year. We generated a majority of our total revenues from services provided to real estate developers, and expect to continue to rely on real estate developers to generate a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Revenues from our services to real estate developers are typically generated on a project-by-project basis. The timing of obtaining sales permits varies from project to project and is subject to uncertain and potentially lengthy delays as developers need to obtain a series of other permits and approvals related to the development before obtaining the sales permit. It is therefore difficult to predict the interval between the time we sign the agency agreements and the time we launch the sale for the projects. We recognize commission revenue from our primary real estate agency services upon achieving the successful sale of a property unit. “Successful sale,” as defined in individual contracts with our developer clients, depends on, among other things, the delivery of the down payment and some purchasers may not deliver the down payments on time. This makes it difficult for us to forecast revenues and increases period-to-period fluctuations. For some of our consulting projects in relation to land acquisition and property development, we agree to a fixed fee arrangement conditional upon the delivery of a final product, such as closing a land acquisition transaction or providing a market study report. Because such consulting projects may take anywhere from a month to a year to perform, the timing of recognizing revenues from such projects may cause fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and even our annual revenues. Furthermore, difficulty in predicting when these projects will begin and how long it will take for us to complete them makes it difficult for us to forecast revenues. Revenues from our online services are closely linked with the timing of various real estate project launches, which could fluctuate from period to period. In addition, we have in the past entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, contracts from time to time with developers requiring us to pay deposits, which has from time to time resulted in our operating with negative cash flows or, if we fail to recover such deposits, could have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on a concentrated number of real estate developers may materially and adversely affect us. Revenues derived from services we rendered to the top ten clients in each of 2011, 2012 and 2013, accounted for approximately 25.7% , 22.6% and 16.9%, respectively, of our total revenues. One real estate developer client accounted for over 10% of our total revenues in each of 2011 and 2012, and no client accounted for over 10% of our total revenues in 2013. In the future, these real estate developers, all of which are independent third parties, may not continue to engage our services at the same level, or at all, or they may experience financial or other difficulties that prevent them from making timely delivery of their properties under development. Should these real estate developers terminate or substantially reduce their business with us and we fail to find alternative real estate developers to provide us with revenue-generating business, or if any of them fail to make timely delivery of their properties under development, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face long cycles to settle our accounts receivable and customer deposits, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. As part of the industry practice, many of our developer clients elect to settle our commission and other service fees only upon the completion of the entire project or a phase of a project. Our working capital levels are therefore affected by the time lag between the time we actually make sales, bill our clients and collect the funds owed to us. This also results in large accounts receivable balances. As of December 31, 2013, our accounts receivable balance, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, totaled approximately $357.4 million. Some of our developer clients require us to pay an upfront and refundable deposit as demonstration of our financial strength and commitment to provide high quality service, and refund our customer deposits subject to certain pre-determined criteria at a date specified in the agency contracts. If any of our clients with significant outstanding accounts receivable balances were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to make payments in a timely manner, or at all, we would have to make further provisions against such accounts receivable and customer deposits, or write off the relevant amounts, either of which could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity position. 10 Table of Contents To improve the security of our accounts receivable and deposits, we sometimes enter into agreements with our developer clients whereby they agree to use properties or the right to properties with pre-sale permit license as collateral against amounts owed to us. In the event of non-payment, we would then resell the properties or the right to properties under construction for cash. The resale price is subject to market conditions and could fall short of the amounts owed to us against which these properties or rights to properties under construction are used as collateral, in which case we would need to write off a portion of our accounts receivable or deposits, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be subject to liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage activities. As a licensed real estate broker, we and our licensed employees are subject to statutory obligations not to sell properties that fail to meet the statutory sales conditions or provide false statements on the conditions of any property in any advertisement. We must present clients with relevant title certificates or sales permits of the properties and the related letter of authorization. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us or our employees to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties we brokered. We or our employees may become subject to claims by other participants in real estate transactions claiming that we or our employees did not fulfill our statutory obligations as brokers. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation.” We derive a significant amount of revenue from our operation of SINA websites and there can be no assurance that our relationship with SINA will continue on satisfactory terms. Through an agreement in 2009 entered into between SINA and us, we own SINA’s real estate operations. SINA is a substantial shareholder in our company. To a large extent, the operations and revenues of our real estate online business rely on SINA’s cooperation with us. The domain names of some major websites of our business are owned by SINA and licensed to us through agreements which we initially entered into with SINA in 2009 with terms through 2019 and which we recently amended and restated to extend through 2024. A significant number of users of these websites are linked through other SINA websites. Pursuant to an advertising inventory agency agreement with SINA, we are the exclusive agent of SINA for selling advertising to the real estate advertisers through 2024. To a certain extent, we rely on SINA’s continued cooperation on an ongoing basis to enjoy our rights pursuant to our agreements with SINA. SINA could at any time reduce its support for our business. In addition, SINA’s dual role as our substantial shareholder and contractual counterparty could result in conflicts of interest. If for any reason SINA does not fulfill its obligations in accordance with the advertising inventory agency agreement or any of the other agreements or otherwise reduces its support for our online real estate operations, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managerial and other employees, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We place substantial reliance on the real estate industry experience and knowledge of our senior management team as well as their relationships with other industry participants. Mr. Xin Zhou, our co-chairman and chief executive officer, is particularly important to our future success due to his substantial experience and reputation in the real estate industry. We do not carry, and do not intend to procure, key person insurance on any of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team due to their departure, or otherwise, could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Finding suitable replacements for our current senior management could be difficult, and competition for such personnel of similar experience is intense. If we fail to retain our senior management, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our real estate service professionals interact with our customers on a daily basis. They are critical to maintaining the quality and consistency of our services and our brand and reputation. It is important for us to attract qualified managerial and other employees who have experience in real estate related services and are committed to our service approach. There may be a limited supply of qualified individuals in some of the cities in China where we have operations and other cities into which we intend to expand. We must hire and train qualified managerial and other employees on a timely basis to keep pace with our rapid growth while maintaining consistent quality of services across our operations in various geographic locations. We must also provide continuous training to our managerial and other employees so that they are equipped with up-to-date knowledge of various aspects of our operations and can meet our demand for high-quality services. If we fail to do so, the quality of our services may decrease in one or more of the markets where we operate, which in turn, may cause a negative perception of our brand and adversely affect our business. Any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. We believe our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are critical to our success. Any unauthorized use of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights could harm our competitive advantages and business. Historically, China has not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States or the Cayman Islands, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, we may lose these rights and our business may suffer materially. Any competitive advantage that we may derive from our CRIC system depends in large part on our protecting our proprietary rights in it. We have imposed contractual obligations on employees and consultants and have taken other precautionary measures to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information and restricted the use of the proprietary information other than for our company’s benefit. If our employees and consultants do not honor their contractual obligations and misappropriate our database and other proprietary information, our business would suffer as a result. As internet domain name rights are not rigorously regulated or enforced in China, other companies have incorporated in their domain names elements similar in writing or pronunciation to the “E-House” or “Leju” trademarks or their Chinese equivalents. This may result in confusion between those companies and our company and may lead to the dilution of our brand value, which could adversely affect our business. Copyright infringement and other intellectual property claims against us may adversely affect our business and our ability to operate our CRIC system. We have collected and compiled in our CRIC system real estate-related news, articles, reports, floor plans, architectural drawings, maps and other documents and information prepared by third parties. Because the content in our database is collected from various sources and distributed to others, we may be subject to claims for breach of contract, defamation, negligence, unfair competition, copyright or trademark infringement, or claims based on other theories. Although we do not use the information we obtain from clients during the course of providing real estate consulting services, the same information derived from other sources may be found in our database. In such cases, we could be subject to breach of confidentiality or similar claims, whether or not having merit, by those clients. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is displayed on our websites or accessible from our websites through links to other websites or information on our websites supplied by third parties. Any lawsuits or threatened lawsuits in which we are involved, either as a plaintiff or as a defendant, could cost us a significant amount of time and money and distract management’s attention from operating our business. Any judgments against us in such suits, or related settlements, could have a material impact on our ability to operate or market our CRIC system, harm our reputation and have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. If a lawsuit against us is successful, we may be required to pay damages or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be based upon commercially reasonable terms, or we may be unable to enter into such agreements at all. As a result, the scope of the data we offer to our clients could be reduced, or our methodologies or services could change, which may adversely affect the usefulness of our CRIC system and our ability to attract and retain clients. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain or keep licenses, permits or approvals applicable to the various real estate services provided by us, we may incur significant financial penalties and other government sanctions. Due to the broad geographic scope of our operations and the wide variety of real estate services we provide, we are subject to numerous national, regional and local laws and regulations specific to the services we perform. Pursuant to the Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, the real estate brokerage and real estate consulting services are among the restricted foreign investment industries. Establishment of or investment in any new indirect subsidiaries in these restricted industries by our PRC subsidiaries directly is, and by our PRC subsidiaries indirectly through their subsidiaries may be, subject to approval of the Ministry of Commerce or its relevant local counterparts. In addition, pursuant to the relevant regulations regarding real estate agency and brokerage businesses, a real estate broker must conduct a filing with the real estate administrative authority within 30 days after issuance of its business license. Among our PRC operating entities with the registered business scope of real estate brokerage business, we have completed such filings with the relevant local real estate administrative authorities for some entities, and are in the process of filings or preparing the relevant application documents for the filings with respect to the remaining entities which intend to make such filings. The requirements of the local real estate administrative authority for such filing may vary in different cities and we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete such filing in a timely manner or at all. If we fail to properly file records or to obtain or maintain the licenses and permits for conducting our businesses, or fail to procure the approvals for our establishment of or investment in any new indirect subsidiaries engaged in real estate brokerage or consulting services in China, the relevant branch office or subsidiary may be ordered to cease conducting the relevant real estate services and be subject to warning, fines and revocation of its licenses. Given the large size and scope of real estate sale transactions, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the multiple levels of licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from non-compliance are significant. In addition to the licenses for our operations, our secondary real estate brokers are required to have the requisite qualification licenses to engage in secondary real estate brokerage services. These licenses must be renewed every one or two years. We are not certain that our secondary real estate brokers can obtain or renew these licenses in a timely manner, if at all. As the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or its local counterparts, will only issue a license to us to set up and operate a secondary real estate brokerage storefront in certain cities when the storefront has at least five licensed real estate brokers, our business could suffer if our secondary real estate brokers are unable to obtain or renew these qualification licenses in those cities. Currently we provide access to our CRIC database on the internet mainly through Shanghai CRIC Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai CRIC, our wholly-owned subsidiary. If relevant PRC governmental authorities deem this to be provision of internet information services under applicable PRC laws and regulations, they may require Shanghai CRIC to obtain a value-added telecommunications business operating license, or ICP license, to continue to provide access to CRIC database through the internet, and Shanghai CRIC could be subject to fines and penalties for operating this business without the proper license. Moreover, because wholly foreign-owned enterprises like Shanghai CRIC are not permitted to obtain an ICP license or engage in “market survey” activities in China, we would need to restructure our operations to have one of our consolidated variable interest entities carry out these activities. In addition, Beijing Yisheng Leju Information Services Co., Ltd., or Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin E-Commerce Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Yi Xin, and Beijing Jiajujiu E-Commerce Co., Ltd., or Beijing Jiajujiu, as well as their respective subsidiaries, our consolidated variable interest entities operating our real estate online business, are required to obtain and maintain applicable licenses or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide their current services, including an ICP license. These licenses are essential to the operation of our real estate online business and are generally subject to annual review by the relevant governmental authorities. In addition, Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin and/or Beijing Jiajujiu and their respective subsidiaries may be required to obtain additional licenses. For example, the release, broadcasting and transmission of graphics, video and audio programs or web links to such programs, other websites or data on the websites may be deemed as providing internet publication services as well as transmission of video and audio programs on the internet, which could require internet publication licenses and licenses for internet and network transmission of video and audio programs. During operation of our real estate online business, we post information, including graphics, web links to videos, other websites or data on websites operated by us. Our consolidated variable interest entities and their subsidiaries do not have internet publication licenses and licenses for internet and network transmission of video and audio programs. For those video/audio programs and certain other forms of content that we believe are subject to the requirements of these licenses, such programs and content are hosted by SINA and Baidu, who possess all these licenses and permits, through our contractual arrangement with them. However, we cannot assure you that government would not require us to obtain these licenses separately for operation of our real estate online business even if the underlying hosting of the relevant content may be provided by a qualified third party like SINA and Baidu. If we are required to apply for such licenses, we can provide no assurance that we will procure and maintain such additional licenses. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to properly obtain or maintain the licenses and permits or complete the filing and registrations required to conduct our business, our affected subsidiaries, consolidated variable interest entities and branch offices in China may be warned, fined, have their licenses or permits revoked, or ordered to suspend or cease providing certain services, or subjected to other penalties, including confiscation of revenues, sanctions or liabilities, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could cause us to inaccurately report our financial result or fail to prevent fraud and have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules require public companies to include a report of management on their internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a public company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We sometimes hire a professional consultant to assist us in such efforts. Our efforts to implement standardized internal control procedures and develop the internal tests necessary to verify the proper application of the internal control procedures and their effectiveness are a key area of focus for our board of directors, our audit committee and senior management. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which concludes that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material aspects as of December 31, 2013.However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to continue to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Security breaches, computer viruses, “denial of service” and computer hacking attacks could harm our real estate information and online business. As we further develop our real estate information and online services and further tap into the real estate e-commerce business, we are subject to an increasing risk of security breaches, computer viruses, interruptions of access through the use of “denial of service” attacks, computer hacking or similar attacks. Although we have not experienced a security breach in the past, such attacks may occur to our CRIC system and other aspects of our real estate online operations in the future. Any security breach caused by hacking or other attacks, which involve efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions, loss, corruption or unavailability of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could harm our real estate information and online businesses. Any loss or tampering of our CRIC system or any failure to maintain availability, performance, reliability and security of our network infrastructure or real estate information and online services to the satisfaction of our customers may harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing customers and attract new ones. 14 Table of Contents Any natural or other disasters, including outbreaks of health epidemics, and other extraordinary events could severely disrupt our business operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communication failures and similar events. If any natural disaster or other extraordinary events were to occur in the area where we operate, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of H7N9 bird flu, H1N1 swine influenza, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. Any prolonged occurrence of swine influenza, avian influenza, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have in the past, and may in the future, sell interests in one or more of our subsidiaries. As part of our funding exercises we may sell all or part of our interests in one or more of our subsidiaries through a listing of the shares of such subsidiaries or the sale to third parties of all or a portion of our equity interests in such subsidiaries. For example, in March 2014 we sold a 16.0% equity interest in Leju to Tencent and in April 2014 Leju completed its initial public offering of Leju ADSs. As a result of these transactions, and Leju’s private placement of ordinary shares to Tencent concurrently with its initial public offering in April 2014, our equity interest in Leju has been reduced to 76.3% as of April 22, 2014. Following any such sale of all or part of our interest in a subsidiary, our equity interest in the assets held by such the subsidiary would be reduced by a corresponding amount. Although we would receive the proceeds of any sale of equity interests in a subsidiary, there can be no assurance that such proceeds will accurately reflect the value of such subsidiary to our business, that the price of our ADSs will not fall as a result of such sale or that we will not be adversely affected by any potential reduction in our consolidated income or cash flows. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the proceeds of any sale of equity interests in a subsidiary will be reinvested in our business and that the benefits of such proceeds will accrue to holders of our ordinary shares and our ADSs to the extent of the benefits generated by the sold shares or at all. We are exposed to potential liability for information on our websites and for products and services sold over the internet and we may incur significant costs and damage to our reputation as a result of defending against such potential liability and could be subject to penalties or other severe consequences from PRC regulatory authorities as a result of such information. We provide third-party content on our websites such as real estate listings, links to third-party websites, advertisements and content provided by customers and users of our community-oriented services. In addition, our website, jiaju.com, is a platform for third party home furnishing distributors to offer their products and services to consumers. We could be exposed to liability with respect to such third-party information or the goods and services sold through our website. Among other things, we may face assertions that, by directly or indirectly providing such third-party content or links to other websites, we should be liable for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other actions by parties providing such content or operating those websites. We may also face assertions that content on our websites, including statistics or other data we compile internally, or information contained in websites linked to our websites contains false information, errors or omissions, and users and our customers could seek damages for losses incurred as a result of their reliance upon or otherwise relating to incorrect information. We may also be subject to fines and other sanctions by the government for such incorrect information. Moreover, our relevant consolidated variable interest entities, as internet advertising service providers, are obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the advertising content shown on our websites for compliance with applicable law. Violation of applicable law may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the offending advertisements and orders to publish advertisements correcting the misleading information. In case of serious violations, the PRC authorities may revoke the offending entities’ advertising licenses and/or business licenses. In addition, our websites could be used as a platform for fraudulent transactions. The measures we take to guard against liability for third-party content or information may not be adequate to exonerate us from relevant civil and other liabilities. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend and result in litigation and significant diversion of management’s attention and resources. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims and suffer damage to our reputation. Our general liability insurance may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed to and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. China has enacted laws, rules and regulations governing internet access and the distribution of news, information or other content, as well as products and services, through the internet. If any internet content we offer or will offer through our consolidated variable interest entities were deemed by the PRC government to violate any of such content restrictions, we would not be able to continue such offerings and could be subject to penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in labor costs in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability. China’s economy has experienced increases in labor costs in recent years. China’s overall economy and the average wage in China are expected to continue to grow. The average wage level for our employees has also increased in recent years. We expect that our labor costs, including wages and employee benefits, will continue to increase. Unless we are able to pass on these increased labor costs to our customers by increasing prices for our products or services, our profitability and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we have been subject to stricter regulatory requirements in terms of entering into labor contracts with our employees and paying various statutory employee benefits, including pensions, housing fund, medical insurance, work-related injury insurance, unemployment insurance and childbearing insurance to designated government agencies for the benefit of our employees. Pursuant to the PRC Labor Contract Law, or the Labor Contract Law, that became effective in January 2008 and its implementing rules that became effective in September 2008 and its amendments that became effective in July 2013, employers are subject to stricter requirements in terms of signing labor contracts, minimum wages, paying remuneration, determining the term of employees’ probation and unilaterally terminating labor contracts. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules may limit our ability to effect those changes in a desirable or cost-effective manner, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Besides, pursuant to the Labor Contract Law and its amendments, dispatched employees are intended to be a supplementary form of employment and the fundamental form should be direct employment by enterprises and organizations that require employees. Further, it is expressly stated in the Interim Provisions on Labor Dispatch that became effective on March 1, 2014 that the number of seconded employees an employer uses may not exceed 10% of its total labor force and the employer has a two-year transition period to comply with such requirement. Some of our PRC subsidiaries, consolidated variable interest entities and their subsidiaries use seconded employees for their principal business activities. If the relevant PRC companies are deemed to have violated the limitation on the use of seconded employees under the relevant labor laws and regulations, we may be subject to fines and incur other costs to make required changes to our current employment practices. As the interpretation and implementation of labor-related laws and regulations are still evolving, we cannot assure you that our employment practice does not and will not violate labor-related laws and regulations in China, which may subject us to labor disputes or government investigations. If we are deemed to have violated relevant labor laws and regulations, we could be required to provide additional compensation to our employees and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the internet infrastructure and telecommunications networks in China. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the internet infrastructure in China. Substantially all access to the internet is maintained through state-controlled telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of MIIT. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are generally the only websites through which a domestic user can connect to the internet. We cannot assure you that a more sophisticated internet infrastructure will be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s internet infrastructure. In addition, the internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in internet usage. We also rely on China Unicom and China Telecom to provide us with data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines and internet data centers to host our servers. We do not have access to alternative services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with the fixed telecommunications networks of China Unicom or China Telecom, or if China Unicom or China Telecom otherwise fails to provide such services. Any unscheduled service interruption could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and result in a decrease in our revenues. Furthermore, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by China Unicom and China Telecom. If the prices that we pay for telecommunications and internet services rise significantly, our gross margins could be significantly reduced. In addition, if internet access fees or other charges to internet users increase, our user traffic may decrease, which in turn may cause our revenues to decline. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our advertising services business and real estate online business in China do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry or the internet information service industry, we could be subject to severe penalties. E-House (China) Holdings Limited is a Cayman Islands company and a foreign person under PRC law. Due to PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the internet and advertising industries, we conduct part of our business through contractual arrangements with our affiliated PRC entities. We rely on Beijing Leju and its subsidiaries to operate our real estate online business and real estate advertising service business. We use Shanghai Yi Xin to operate our real estate e-commerce platform, Beijing Jiajujiu and its subsidiaries to operate our online home furnishing websites and Shanghai Kushuo Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Kushuo, and its subsidiaries to operate our real estate offline advertising business. Beijing Leju and its subsidiaries, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu and its subsidiaries, and Shanghai Kushuo and its subsidiaries hold the licenses and approvals that are essential for our business operations. We have entered into, through our majority-owned subsidiaries, Shanghai SINA Leju Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai SINA Leju, Shanghai Yi Yue Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Yi Yue, Beijing Maiteng Fengshun Science and Technology Co., Ltd., or Beijing Maiteng, and Shanghai Yifang Software Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Yifang, a series of contractual arrangements with Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu, Shanghai Kushuo and their respective shareholders. These contractual arrangements enable us to (1) have power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu, Shanghai Kushuo and their subsidiaries; (2) receive substantially all of the economic benefits from the four variable interest entities and their subsidiaries in consideration for the services provided by our subsidiaries in China; and (3) have an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in the variable interest entities, when and to the extent permitted by PRC law, or request any existing shareholder of the variable interest entities to transfer all or part of the equity interest in the variable interest entities to another PRC person or entity designated by us at any time in our discretion. These agreements make us their “primary beneficiary” for accounting purposes under U.S. GAAP. For descriptions of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Agreements with Beijing Leju,”“—Contractual Agreements with Shanghai Yi Xin,”“—Contractual Agreements with Beijing Jiajujiu” and “—Contractual Agreements with Shanghai Kushuo.” 15 Table of Contents If the PRC government finds that these contractual arrangements do not comply with its restrictions on foreign investment in the internet business or advertising industry, or if the PRC government otherwise finds that we, Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu or Shanghai Kushuo, or any of their subsidiaries is in violation of PRC laws or regulations or lack the necessary permits or licenses to operate our business, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, which regulates advertising companies, and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, which regulates internet information service companies, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: · revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates; · discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ operations; · imposing fines or confiscating the income of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliates; · imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may not be able to comply; · requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or · taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. The imposition of any of these penalties could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If any of these penalties results in our inability to direct the activities of any of Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu or Shanghai Kushuo that most significantly impact its economic performance, and/or our failure to receive the economic benefits from any of Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu or Shanghai Kushuo, we may not be able to consolidate the entity in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We rely on contractual arrangements with Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu and Shanghai Kushuo and their respective shareholders for a portion of our operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control. We rely on contractual arrangements with Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu and Shanghai Kushuo and their respective shareholders to operate our real estate online business and our real estate advertising business. For descriptions of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Agreements with Beijing Leju,”“—Contractual Agreements with Shanghai Yi Xin,”“—Contractual Agreements with Beijing Jiajujiu” and “—Contractual Agreements with Shanghai Kushuo.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu or Shanghai Kushuo. These contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. If any of the other parties fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and we would have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. Furthermore, the legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu and Shanghai Kushuo, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. 16 Table of Contents In 2011 2012 and 2013, Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu, Shanghai Kushuo and their respective subsidiaries contributed in aggregate approximately 30%, 37% and 44% of our total net revenues, respectively. In the event we are unable to enforce the contractual arrangements, we may not be able to have the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu, Shanghai Kushuo and their respective subsidiaries, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected, and we may not be able to consolidate the financial results of Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu, Shanghai Kushuo and their respective subsidiaries into our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The shareholders of our consolidated variable interest entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, and if any such conflicts of interest are not resolved in our favor, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We have designated individuals who are PRC nationals to be the shareholders of our consolidated variable interest entities in China, Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu and Shanghai Kushuo. These individuals may have conflicts of interest with us. Beijing Leju is 80% owned by Mr. Xudong Zhu, the head of our offline advertising operations, and 20% owned by Mr. Zuyu Ding, our co-president. Neither Mr. Zhu nor Mr. Ding have a significant equity stake in our company. Conflicts of interests between their dual roles as shareholders of Beijing Leju and as officers of our company may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, they will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In addition, they may breach or cause Beijing Leju and its subsidiaries to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to effectively control Beijing Leju and its subsidiaries and receive economic benefits from them. Currently, we do not have arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between Mr. Zhu or Mr. Ding and our company. We rely on them to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands and China, which provide that directors and/or officers owe a fiduciary duty to our company, which requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of our company and not to use their positions for personal gain. In addition, Shanghai Yi Xin and Beijing Jiajujiu are 70% owned by Mr. Zuyu Ding and 30% owned by Mr. Weijie Ma, an employee of our company, and Shanghai Kushuo is 50% owned Mr. Zuyu Ding and 50% owned by Mr. Weijie Ma. These individual shareholders do not have a significant equity stake in our company, and they may potentially have similar conflicts of interests as described above. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the individual shareholders of our consolidated variable interest entities, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and as to the outcome of which there is substantial uncertainty. Our ability to enforce the equity pledge agreements between us and the shareholders of Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu or Shanghai Kushuo may be subject to limitations based on PRC laws and regulations. Pursuant to the equity pledge agreements relating to our consolidated variable interest entities, Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu and Shanghai Kushuo, the shareholders of the variable interest entities pledge their equity interest in the variable interest entities to our subsidiaries to secure their and the relevant variable interest entities’ performance of the obligations under the relevant contractual arrangements. The equity pledges under these equity pledge agreements have been registered with the relevant local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce. According to the PRC Property Law and PRC Guarantee Law, the pledgee and the pledgor are prohibited from making an agreement prior to the expiration of the debt performance period to transfer the ownership of the pledged equity to the pledgee when the obligor fails to pay the debt due. However, under the PRC Property Law, when an obligor fails to pay its debt when due, the pledgee may choose to either conclude an agreement with the pledgor to obtain the pledged equity or seek payments from the proceeds of the auction or sell-off of the pledged equity. If any of the consolidated variable interest entities or its shareholders fails to perform its obligations secured by the pledges under the equity pledge agreements, one remedy in the event of default under the agreements is to require the pledgor to sell the equity interests in the relevant variable interest entity in an auction or private sale and remit the proceeds to our subsidiaries in China, net of related taxes and expenses. Such an auction or private sale may not result in our receipt of the full value of the equity interests in the relevant variable interest entity. We consider it very unlikely that the public auction process would be undertaken since, in an event of default, our preferred approach is to ask our PRC subsidiary that is a party to the exclusive call option agreement with the variable interest entity’s shareholder, to designate another PRC person or entity to acquire the equity interest in the variable interest entity and replace the existing shareholder pursuant to the exclusive call option agreement. 17 Table of Contents In addition, in the registration forms of the local branch of State Administration for Industry and Commerce for the pledges over the equity interests under the equity pledge agreements, the amount of registered equity interests pledged to our PRC subsidiaries was stated as the pledgor’s portion of the registered capital of the variable interest entity. The equity pledge agreements with the shareholders of the variable interest entities provide that the pledged equity interest constitute continuing security for any and all of the indebtedness, obligations and liabilities under the relevant contractual arrangements, and therefore the scope of pledge should not be limited by the amount of the registered capital of the variable interest entities. However, there is no guarantee that a PRC court will not take the position that the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms represents the full amount of the collateral that has been registered and perfected. If this is the case, the obligations that are supposed to be secured in the equity pledge agreements in excess of the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms could be determined by the PRC court as unsecured debt, which takes last priority among creditors and often does not have to be paid back at all. We do not have agreements that pledge the assets of the variable interest entities and their subsidiaries for the benefit of us or our PRC subsidiaries, although the variable interest entities grant our PRC subsidiaries options to purchase the assets of the variable interest entities and their equity interests in their subsidiaries under the exclusive call option agreement. Contractual arrangements we have entered into with Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu and Shanghai Kushuo may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we, Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu or Shanghai Kushuo owe additional taxes could reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be audited or challenged by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements we have entered into with Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu or Shanghai Kushuo do not represent an arm’s-length price and adjust the taxable income of Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu, Shanghai Kushuo or their subsidiaries in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction of expense deductions recorded by Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu, Shanghai Kushuo or their subsidiaries, which could in turn increase their PRC tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on our variable interest entities for underpayment of taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our variable interest entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in PRC government policies could have a material and adverse effect on overall economic growth in China, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. As the real estate industry is highly sensitive to business spending, credit conditions and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven across different periods, regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government may implement measures that are intended to benefit the overall economy even if they would be expected to have a negative effect on the real estate industry. The real estate industry is also sensitive to credit policies. In recent years, the PRC government adjusted the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and benchmark interest rates several times in response to various economic situations. Any future monetary tightening may reduce the overall liquidity in the economy and reduce the amount of credit available for real estate purchase. Higher interest rates may increase the borrowing cost for buyers who rely on mortgage loans to finance their real estate purchase. These could negatively affect the total demand for real estate purchase and adversely affect our operating and financial results. We cannot assure you that China will continue to have rapid or stable economic growth in the future or that changes in credit or other government policies that are intended to create stable economic growth will not adversely impact the real estate industry. 18 Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and variable interest entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Restrictions on currency exchanges between RMB and other currencies may limit our ability to utilize our revenues and funds, in particular in relation to capital account transactions such as investments and loans. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income will be primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our variable interest entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under current PRC regulations, RMB is convertible for “current account transactions,” which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements. Although the RMB has been fully convertible for current account transactions since 1996, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and of foreign currencies into RMB, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which principally include investments and loans, generally requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated PRC operating companies to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material and adverse effect on your investment. The conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the RMB to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the RMB to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, though at times the RMB has depreciated against the U.S. dollar as well. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar in the future. As our costs and expenses are mostly denominated in RMB, the appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as our operating subsidiaries and variable interest entities in China receive revenues in RMB, any significant depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar may have a material and adverse effect on our revenues in U.S. dollar terms and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. These and other effects on our financial data resulting from fluctuations in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar could have a material and adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs and your investment. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Foreign Exchange Risk.” 19 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice, commonly referred to as Circular No. 75, in October 2005 requiring PRC domestic residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC residents who are beneficial owners of offshore special purpose companies and have completed round trip investments but did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. PRC resident beneficial owners are also required to amend their registrations with the local SAFE branch in certain circumstances. SAFE subsequently issued relevant guidance and rules, which provide for more specific and stringent supervision of the SAFE registration under Circular No. 75. We are aware that our PRC resident beneficial owners subject to the SAFE registration requirements have registered with the Shanghai SAFE branch and will amend such registration to reflect the recent changes to our corporate structure. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents will continue to make, obtain or amend any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration requirements could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, including the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. Under the applicable regulations and SAFE rules, PRC citizens who participate in an employee stock ownership plan or a stock option plan in an overseas publicly listed company are required to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notices on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rules, which terminated the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company issued by SAFE in March 2007. Pursuant to the Stock Option Rules, if a PRC resident participates in any stock incentive plan of an overseas publicly-listed company, a qualified PRC domestic agent must, among other things, file on behalf of such participant an application with SAFE to conduct the SAFE registration with respect to such stock incentive plan and obtain approval for an annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with the exercise or sale of stock options or stock such participant holds. Such participating PRC residents’ foreign exchange income received from the sale of stock and dividends distributed by the overseas publicly-listed company must be fully remitted into a PRC collective foreign currency account opened and managed by the PRC agent before distribution to such participants. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to this rule and we have registered our existing employee stock ownership plan and stock option plan with SAFE Shanghai Branch. However, if there is any change to our existing employee stock ownership plan or stock option plan, we cannot assure you that we and our PRC optionees will be able to amend such registration in a timely manner, or at all. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Employee Share Options.” 20 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to acquisitions in China require us to obtain certain approvals from the Ministry of Commerce and the failure to obtain such approval could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation and the trading price of our ADSs. The Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Regulation, jointly issued by six PRC regulatory agencies and amended by the Ministry of Commerce in 2009, include provisions that purport to require the Ministry of Commerce’s approval for acquisitions by offshore entities established or controlled by domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons of onshore entities that are related to such domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons. However, the interpretation and implementation of the M&A Regulation remain unclear with no consensus currently existing regarding the scope and applicability of the Ministry of Commerce approval requirement on foreign acquisitions among related parties. In 2008, for the purpose of a series of our acquisitions of advertising services and future businesses that may otherwise be restricted for foreign investments, we, through Shanghai CRIC, entered into contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo, our then variable interest entity, and its shareholder, which provide us with substantial ability to control Tian Zhuo. After the transfer of 10% equity interests in Tian Zhuo from Mr. Xin Zhou to Mr. Xudong Zhu in July 2009, we entered into a series of new or amended contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo and its shareholders which continue to provide us with substantial ability to control Tian Zhuo. In October 2012, the shareholders of Tian Zhuo transferred all of their equity interests in Tian Zhuo to Shanghai Lerong Information Technology Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Beijing Leju, so that Tian Zhuo became a wholly owned subsidiary of Beijing Leju, and the contractual arrangement with Tian Zhuo was accordingly terminated. In December 2013, Shanghai Lerong Information Technology Co., Ltd. transferred all of its equity interests in Tian Zhuo to Shanghai Kushuo, so that Tian Zhuo has become a wholly owned subsidiary of Shanghai Kushuo. We have also entered into contractual arrangements with each of Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin, Beijing Jiajujiu and Shanghai Kushuo and their respective shareholders, which provide us with substantial ability to control each of these entities. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” If the Ministry of Commerce subsequently determines that their approval was required for such contractual arrangements, we may need to apply for a remedial approval. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval or waiver of such approval from the Ministry of Commerce. Inability to obtain such approval or waiver from the Ministry of Commerce may have a material and adverse effect on our business. Further, we may be subject to certain administrative punishments or other sanctions from the Ministry of Commerce. The Ministry of Commerce or other regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of U.S. dollars into the PRC, or take other actions that could have further material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. The M&A Rules and certain other PRC regulations establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The M&A Rules and recently adopted regulations and rules concerning mergers and acquisitions established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time consuming and complex. For example, the M&A Rules require that the PRC Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise, if (i) any important industry is concerned, (ii) such transaction involves factors that have or may have impact on the national economic security, or (iii) such transaction will lead to a change in control of a domestic enterprise which holds a famous trademark or PRC time-honored brand. Mergers, acquisitions or contractual arrangements that allow one market player to take control of or to exert decisive impact on another market player must also be notified in advance to the PRC Ministry of Commerce when the threshold under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, or the Prior Notification Rules, issued by the State Council in August 2008 is triggered. In addition, the Implementing Rules Concerning Security Review on the Mergers and Acquisitions by Foreign Investors of Domestic Enterprises, issued by the PRC Ministry of Commerce in August 2011, specify that mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors involved in “an industry related to national security” are subject to strict review by the PRC Ministry of Commerce, and prohibit any activities attempting to bypass such security review, including by structuring the transaction through a proxy or contractual control arrangement. In the future, we may grow our business by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the above-mentioned regulations and other relevant rules to complete such transactions could be time consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions. We believe that our business is not in an industry related to national security but we cannot preclude the possibility that the PRC Ministry of Commerce or other government agencies may publish explanations contrary to our understanding or broaden the scope of such security reviews in the future, in which case our future acquisitions in the PRC, including those by way of entering into contractual control arrangements with target entities, may be closely scrutinized or prohibited. Our ability to expand our business or maintain or expand our market share through future acquisitions would as such be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Our holding company relies principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements it may have, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make payments to our holding company could have a material and adverse effect on its ability to fund our operations, make investments or acquisitions, or pay dividends. E-House is a holding company, and it relies principally on dividends from its subsidiaries in China to fund any cash and financing requirements it may have, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to the shareholders and service any debt it may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to E-House. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to E-House. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to E-House could materially and adversely limit its ability to fund our business operations, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses or pay dividends. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to registrations with relevant governmental authorities in China. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Loans to and Direct Investment in PRC Entities by Offshore Holding Companies.” We may also decide to finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign-invested enterprises in China, depending on the amount of total investment, capital contributions to foreign-invested enterprises in China are subject to approval by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local branches. We may not obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to a Circular on Enterprise Income Tax Preferential Treatments issued by the State Administration of Taxation and the Ministry of Finance effective as of February 22, 2008, a qualified software enterprise is eligible to be exempted from income tax for its first two profitable years, followed by a 50% reduction in income tax, to a rate of 12.5%, for the subsequent three years. Shanghai SINA Leju was recognized as a qualified software enterprise in February 2009 and was further approved by the local tax authority in June 2009, and, thus, became eligible to be exempted from income tax for 2009, followed by a 50% reduction in income tax from 2010 through 2012. Shanghai CRIC was also recognized as a qualified software enterprise in September 2008 and was further approved by the local tax authority in May 2010 and, thus, it is likewise eligible to be exempted from income tax for 2009, followed by a 50% reduction in income tax from 2010 through 2012. Another majority-owned subsidiary Shanghai Fangxin Information Technology Co. Ltd., or Shanghai Fangxin, was recognized as a qualified software enterprise in February 2012 and was further approved by the local tax authority in October 2012 to become eligible for being exempted from income tax for 2012 and 2013, followed by a 50% reduction in income tax from 2014 through 2016. Furthermore, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules permit certain “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State” which hold independent ownership of core intellectual property and simultaneously meet a list of other criteria, financial or nonfinancial, as stipulated in the implementation rules, to enjoy a reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate. The State Administration of Taxation, the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Finance jointly issued the Administrative Rules for the Certification of High and New Technology Enterprises delineating the specific criteria and procedures for the “high and new technology enterprises” certification in April 2008. Each of Shanghai CRIC and Shanghai SINA Leju was approved as a high and new technology enterprise and is therefore subject to a 15% preferential income tax rate for the years from 2013 through 2014. However, qualified software enterprise status and high and new technology enterprise status is subject to annual review. Shanghai SINA Leju, Shanghai CRIC and Shanghai Fangxin are in the process of completing the annual review for 2013. If Shanghai SINA Leju, Shanghai CRIC or Shanghai Fangxin fails to maintain software enterprise status in any annual review, or Shanghai CRIC and Shanghai SINA Leju fails to maintain its high and new enterprise status, their applicable enterprise income tax rate may increase to up to 25%, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Various local governments in China have also provided discretionary preferential tax treatments to us. However, at any time, these local governments may decide to reduce or eliminate these preferential tax treatments. Furthermore, these local implementations of tax laws may be found in violation of national laws or regulations, and as a consequence, we may be subject to retroactive imposition of higher taxes as a result. We are required under U.S. GAAP to accrue taxes for these contingencies. The change in accounting requirement for reporting tax contingencies, any reduction or elimination of these preferential tax treatments and any retroactive imposition of higher taxes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business benefits from tax-related government incentives and discretionary policies. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives or policies could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Since 2009, Shanghai CRIC has been granted certain governmental financial subsidies by the Zhabei District government in Shanghai. Local governments may decide to reduce or eliminate subsidies at any time. In addition, we cannot assure you of the continued availability of the government incentives and subsidies currently enjoyed by some of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities. Furthermore, local implementations of tax laws may be found in violation of national laws or regulations, and as a consequence, we may be subject to retroactive imposition of higher taxes. We are required under U.S. GAAP to accrue taxes for these contingencies. Any change in accounting requirements for reporting tax contingencies, any reduction or elimination of subsidies or any retroactive imposition of higher taxes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Dividends payable to us by our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC withholding taxes, or we may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income and dividends and interest distributed to our investors may be subject to PRC withholding taxes under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and our investors may be subject to PRC withholding tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, all domestic and foreign invested companies would be subject to a uniform enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% and dividends from a PRC subsidiary to its foreign parent company will be subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 10%, unless such foreign parent company’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding, or the tax is otherwise exempted or reduced pursuant to PRC tax laws. Under the Administrative Measures for Non-Residents Enjoying Tax Treaty Benefits (Trial Implementation), effective on October 1, 2009, our Hong Kong subsidiaries need to obtain approval from the relevant local branch of the State Administration of Taxation in order to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate of 5% in accordance with the Arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income. The PRC State Administration of Taxation further clarified in a circular that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance and that a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant the tax treaty benefits. It is unclear at this stage whether this circular applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries. However, it is possible that our Hong Kong subsidiaries might not be considered as “beneficial owners” of any dividends from their PRC subsidiaries and as a result would be subject to withholding tax at the rate of 10%. As a result, there is no assurance that our Hong Kong subsidiaries will be able to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate. 23 Table of Contents In addition, under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, enterprises organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside of China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered PRC resident enterprises and therefore be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, “de facto management bodies” are defined as the bodies that have material and overall management and control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of the enterprise. A subsequent circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation provides that a foreign enterprise controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as a “resident enterprise” with its “de facto management bodies” located within China if the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function mainly in the PRC; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) more than half of the enterprise’s directors or senior management with voting rights reside in the PRC. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules are relatively new and ambiguities exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to resident enterprise issues. Although our offshore holding companies are not controlled by any PRC company or company group, we cannot assure you that we will not be deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, we would be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income; dividend income we receive from the PRC subsidiaries, however, may be exempt from PRC tax since such income is exempted under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law to a PRC resident recipient. However, as there is still uncertainty as to how the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules will be interpreted and implemented, and the PRC foreign exchange control authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as PRC resident enterprises, we cannot assure you that we are eligible for such PRC enterprise income tax exemptions or reductions. In addition, ambiguities also exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to identification of PRC-sourced income. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, any interest payable to non-resident enterprise holders of the notes and dividends payable to non-resident holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs, and the gains such investors may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, may be treated as PRC-sourced income and therefore be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax (or 20% in the case of non-resident individual holders), unless otherwise exempted or reduced pursuant to treaties or applicable PRC law. If we became a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and received income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flows would be adversely affected due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. Additionally, we would incur an incremental PRC dividend withholding tax cost if we distributed our profits to our ultimate shareholders. There is, however, not necessarily an incremental PRC dividend withholding tax on the piece of the profits distributed from our PRC subsidiaries, since they would have been subject to PRC dividend withholding tax even if we were not a PRC tax resident. Foreign ownership of the real estate agency and brokerage business in China is restricted under PRC regulations. This may limit our ability to establish new PRC operating entities or to increase registered capital of existing entities in the future. We are a Cayman Islands company and a foreign person under PRC law. Pursuant to the latest Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, the PRC government classifies real estate agency companies and real estate brokerage companies within the restricted category for foreign investment. Accordingly, we would require approval from the Ministry of Commerce or its local branch in order to establish new PRC operating entities or to increase the registered capital of our existing PRC operating entities. It may be difficult and time-consuming for us to obtain such approval, or we may not be able to obtain it at all. Accordingly, these approval requirements may hamper our ability to expand our real estate agency and brokerage business in China. In addition, currently, we mainly use E-House City Rehouse Real Estate Broker (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or City Rehouse, and its subsidiaries to provide support for our real estate e-commerce business. Certain of the support services provided by City Rehouse and its subsidiaries may be regarded as real estate agency and brokerage services under PRC law. Although City Rehouse has not obtained approval from the competent local branch of the Ministry of Commerce in connection with its establishment of, or investment in, its subsidiaries with a registered business scope of real estate brokerage business, each subsidiary of City Rehouse has obtained and maintained a business license with such business scope, and none of such subsidiaries has received any notice of warning or penalties from the competent authorities for lacking such approval. We intend to seek approval from the local branch of the PRC Ministry of Commerce for City Rehouse’s ownership in each of its subsidiaries that has a registered business scope of engaging in the real estate brokerage business. We are in the process of preparing the relevant application documents. However, it may be difficult and time-consuming for us to obtain such approval, or we may not be able to obtain it at all. If the relevant PRC government authorities require us to have such approval, the lack of such approval may lead to our relevant subsidiary being ordered to cease conducting the relevant e-commerce support services business or becoming subject to warnings, fines or revocation of its licenses. 24 Table of Contents We face uncertainty with respect to indirect transfer of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC holding companies. We face uncertainties on the reporting and consequences on private equity financing transactions, share exchange or other transactions involving the transfer of shares in our company by entities who are non-PRC resident enterprises. According to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on December 10, 2009, with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, or SAT Circular 698, and its subsequent application rules, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers the equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise indirectly through a disposition of equity interests in an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the non-PRC resident enterprise, as the seller, shall report such Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise within 30 days of execution of the equity transfer agreement for such Indirect Transfer. The PRC tax authority will examine the true nature of the Indirect Transfer, and if the tax authority considers that the foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement without reasonable commercial purposes and for the purpose of avoiding or reducing PRC tax, they will disregard the existence of the overseas holding company that is used for tax planning purposes and re-characterize the Indirect Transfer. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at the rate of up to 10%. We cannot assure you that the PRC tax authorities will not, at their discretion, adjust any capital gains and impose tax return filing obligations on us or require us to provide assistance for the investigation of PRC tax authorities with respect thereto. Any PRC tax imposed on a transfer of our shares or any adjustment of such gains would cause us to incur additional costs and may have a negative impact on the value of your investment in us. SAT Circular 698 also points out that when a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the competent tax authorities have the power to make a reasonable adjustment on the taxable income of the transaction. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issued the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of the PCAOB inspections and lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. 25 Table of Contents Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Chinese affiliates of the “big four” accounting firms,(including our auditors) and also against Dahua (the former BDO affiliate in China). The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ inability to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditors or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an Initial Decision that the “big four” accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the Commission for six months. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a Petition for Review of the Initial Decision and pending that review the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. The SEC Commissioners will review the Initial Decision, determine whether there has been any violation, and if so, determine the appropriate remedy to be placed on these audit firms. Once such an order was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the US Federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor concerns regarding China-based, United States listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile. In 2013, the closing price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, varied from a high of $15.08 to a low of $3.94. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · changes in government real estate policies or conditions in the real estate industry in China; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other real estate services companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic investments or partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments or capital markets transactions; · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies; · sales or repurchases of our ADSs or ordinary shares; and · general economic or political conditions in China. 26 Table of Contents The securities markets in the United States, China and elsewhere have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies, particularly in recent years. The securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. Since 2011, some China-based companies became targets of short sellers. Any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. Although we have confidence in our corporate governance practice and internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such attack. Any negative news or perceptions about our corporate governance or accounting practice in the future, regardless of its merits, will negatively affect the trading performance of our ADSs. In addition, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of March 31, 2014, we had 142,809,504 ordinary shares outstanding, of which 29,333,740 ordinary shares were held by SINA. Pursuant to an Investor Rights Agreement we entered into with SINA in August 2012, we agreed to provide SINA with certain registration rights in respect of our ordinary shares and ADSs owned by SINA, subject to certain limitations. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Investor Rights Agreement with SINA.” In addition, a total of 31,500,000 ordinary shares held by certain shareholders affiliated with our management are currently subject to a share charge for the benefit of a third-party lender which has entered into a margin loan facility with one of these shareholders. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—E. Share Ownership.” We have agreed to register part or all of the shares subject to the share charge on a shelf registration statement under certain conditions and upon occurrence of certain circumstances, if ever. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. If part or all of the shares subject to the share charge are sold in the public market or if any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ADSs, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. In addition, if we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have an adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs cannot exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs have appointed the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. 27 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because our holding company is incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our officers reside outside the United States. Our holding company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries in China. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a Cayman Islands or PRC court in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits provided certain conditions are met. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2013Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by non-controlling shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. 28 Table of Contents We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. We will be classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” or “PFIC” for United States federal income tax purposes for any taxable year, if either (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such year consists of certain types of “passive” income or (b) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of our assets (as determined on the basis of fair market value) during such year produce or are held for the production of passive income. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat our variable interest entities as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, not only because we exercise effective control over the operation of such entities but also because we are entitled to substantially all of their economic benefits, and, as a result, we consolidate their operating results in our consolidated financial statements. While we do not expect to be a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2013, there is a risk that we may become a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2014 and future taxable years because of our significant cash balances and because the value of our assets, for purposes of the PFIC test, will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC for the current taxable year or future taxable years. The determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC will also be affected by how, and how quickly, we use our liquid assets. Under circumstances where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes our risk of being classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. It is also possible that the Internal Revenue Service may challenge our classification or valuation of our goodwill and other unbooked intangibles, which may result in our company being or, becoming classified as, a PFIC for the current or future taxable years. The determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC will also depend, in part, upon the nature of our income and assets over time, which are subject to change from year to year. There can be no assurance our business plans will not change in a manner that will affect our PFIC status. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a fact-intensive determination made on an annual basis, no assurance may be given with respect to our PFIC status for any taxable year. If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the notes, ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares. Each U.S. Holder is urged to consult its tax advisor concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of an investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares if we are treated as a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year, including the possibility of making a “mark-to-market” election. See the discussion under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules” concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of an investment in the ADSs or ordinary shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC, including the possibility of making a “mark-to-market” election. 29 Table of Contents 