Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face a variety of risks that might affect our business, financial condition, operating results or any combination thereof. Although many of the risks discussed below are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict, you should carefully consider the identified risks before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. In addition to the risks and uncertainties identified elsewhere in this Form 10-K as well as other information contained herein, each of the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occur or develop, our business, results of operations and financial condition could change. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The following discussion addresses those risks that management believes are the most significant and that might affect our business, financial condition or operating results, although there are other risks that could arise or might become more significant than anticipated. Risks Relating to Our Revenues and Cash Flow Challenges Relating to Our Ability to Enter into New License Agreements Could Cause Our Revenues and Cash Flow to Decline. We face challenges in entering into new patent license agreements. During discussions with unlicensed companies, significant negotiation issues arise from time to time. For example, manufacturers and sellers of 2G products could be reluctant to enter into a license agreement because such companies might be required to make a significant payments for unlicensed past sales. Moreover, a significant part of our TDMA patent portfolio expired in 2006. Also, certain of the inventions we believe will be employed in 3G products and other future technologies are the subject of our patent applications where no patent has been issued yet by the relevant patent reviewing authorities. Certain prospective licensees are unwilling to license patent rights prior to a patent’s issuance. Additionally, in the ordinary course of negotiations, in response to our demand that they enter into a license agreement, manufacturers raise different defenses and arguments including, but not limited to, (i) claims by third parties challenging the essential nature of our patents, (ii) claims that their products do not infringe our patents or that our patents are invalid or unenforceable, (iii) certain patents should be excluded from the license, (iv) our royalty rates are not fair, reasonable or nondiscriminatory, and (v) the potential impact that any litigation or arbitration in which we are involved might have on such manufacturers. We cannot assure that all prospective licensees will be persuaded during negotiations to enter into a patent license agreement with us, either at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our financial condition and operating results could continue to fluctuate because (i) a significant portion of our licensing revenues are currently dependent on sales by our licensees that are outside our control and that could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, including global and/or country-specific economic conditions, buying patterns of end users, competition for our licensees’ products and any decline in the sale prices our licensees receive for their covered products; (ii) the strength of our patent portfolio could be weakened through patents being declared invalid, our claims being narrowed, changes to the Standards and patent laws and regulations and adverse court or arbitration decisions; (iii) it is difficult to predict the timing and amount of licensing revenue associated with past infringement and new licenses, and the timing, nature or amount of revenues associated with strategic partnerships; (iv) we might not be able to enter into additional or expanded strategic partnerships, either at all or on acceptable terms; and (v) our markets are subject to increased competition from other products and technologies. In addition, our operating results also could be affected by (i) general economic and other conditions that cause a downturn in the market for the customers of our products or technologies or (ii) increased expenses that could result from factors 13 such as increased litigation and arbitration costs, actions designed to keep pace with technology and product market targets or strategic investments. Further, due to the fact that our expenses are relatively fixed, variations in revenue from a small number of customers could cause our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Our revenue and cash flow also could be affected by (i) the unwillingness of any licensee to satisfy all of their royalty obligations on the terms or within the timeframe we expect or a decline in the financial condition of any licensee or (ii) the failure of 2G/2.5G and 3G sales to meet market forecasts due to global economic conditions, political instability, competitive technologies or otherwise. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast and could adversely affect both our quarterly and annual operating results and financial condition. Challenges Relating to Our Existing License Agreements Could Cause Our Revenue and Cash Flow to Decline. Revenue and cash flow from existing and potential licensees might be affected by challenges to our interpretation of provisions of license agreements. Such challenges or difficulties could result in rejection or modification of license agreements or the termination, reduction and suspension of payments. The licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date, and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. As a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our license agreements. In order to license these later patents, we will need to extend or modify our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with the licensees. We might not be able to modify the license agreements in the future to license any later patents or extend the date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees. Some of our license agreements have fixed terms. We will need to renegotiate license agreements with fixed terms prior to the expiration of the license agreements and, based on various factors, including the technology and business needs and competitive positions of our licensees, we might not be able to renegotiate the license agreements on similar terms, or at all. In order to maintain existing relationships with some of our licensees, we might be forced to renegotiate license agreements on terms that are more favorable to the licensees, which could harm our results of operations. If we fail to renegotiate our license agreements, we would lose existing licensees and our business would be materially adversely affected. Our licenses could contain provisions that would cause the licensee’s obligation to pay royalties to be reduced or suspended for an indefinite period, with or without the accrual of the royalty obligation. For example, existing license agreements could be renegotiated or restructured based on MFL or other provisions contained in the applicable license agreement. The assertion or validity of any such provisions under existing agreements could affect our cash flow and/or the timing and amount of future recurring licensing revenue. Setbacks in Defending and Enforcing Our Patent Rights Could Cause Our Revenue and Cash Flow to Decline. Major telecommunications equipment manufacturers have challenged, and we expect will continue to challenge, the validity and infringement of our patents. In some instances, certain of our patent claims have been declared invalid or substantially narrowed. We cannot assure that the validity of our patents will be maintained or that any of the key patents will be determined to be applicable to any particular product. Any significant adverse finding as to the validity or scope of our key patents could result in the loss of patent licensing revenue from existing licensees and could substantially impair our ability to secure new patent licensing arrangements. For example, we are engaged in a proceeding against Nokia in the USITC alleging that Nokia engaged in an unfair trade practice by selling for importation into the United States, importing into the United States and selling after importation into the United States certain 3G mobile handsets and components that infringe four of InterDigital’s patents. If we are delayed or unsuccessful in this matter, we might be delayed in collecting, collect less than we expect or be unable to collect royalties from Nokia on its sales of 3G products. Any significant adverse outcome in the Nokia litigation could also substantially impair our ability to renew existing license agreements or secure new licensing arrangements with other parties. Royalty Rates Could Decrease for Future License Agreements. Certain licensees and others in the wireless industry, individually and collectively, are demanding that royalty rates for 2G and 3G patents be lower than historic royalty rates and, in some cases, that the aggregate royalty rates for 2G and 3G products be capped. A number of companies have made claims as to the essential nature of their patents with respect to products for the 3G market. Both the increasing number of patent holders of 3G and future technologies and the efforts, if successful, by certain industry members and groups to reduce and/or place caps on royalty rates for 2G, 3G and future technologies could result in a decrease in the royalty rates we receive for use of our patented inventions, thereby decreasing future anticipated revenue and cash flow. Our Revenues Are Derived Primarily from a Limited Number of Patent Licensees. We earn a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of licensees, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to come from a limited number of licensees for the foreseeable future. In the event one or more of these licensees fail to meet their payment or reporting obligations under their respective license agreements, we lose any of these licensees or our revenues from these licensees decline, our future revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. 14 It Is Difficult for Us to Verify Royalty Amounts Owed to Us Under Our Licensing Agreements, and This Might Cause Us to Lose Revenues. The standard terms of our license agreements require our licensees to document the manufacture and sale of products that incorporate our technology and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our standard license terms give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, flawed and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationship with our licensees. Our license compliance program randomly audits licensees to independently verify the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty revenues to which we are entitled under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that the random audits will be effective to that end. Risks Relating to Our Expenses Due to the Nature of Our Business, We Could Be Involved in a Number of Litigation, Arbitration and Administrative Proceedings. While some companies seek licenses before they commence manufacturing and/or selling devices that use our patented inventions, most do not. Consequently, we approach companies and seek to establish license agreements for using our inventions. We expend significant effort identifying potential users of our inventions and negotiating license agreements with companies that might be reluctant to take licenses. However, if we believe that a third party is required to take a license to our patents in order to manufacture, sell or use products, we might commence legal or administrative action against the third party if they refuse to enter into a license agreement. In turn, we could face counterclaims that challenge the essential nature of our patents, that our patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed or that our royalty rates are not fair, reasonable or nondiscriminatory. As a result of enforcing our IPR, we could be subject to significant legal fees and costs, including the costs and fees of opposing counsel in certain jurisdictions if we are unsuccessful. In addition, litigation, arbitration and administrative proceedings require significant key employee involvement for significant periods of time, which could divert these employees from other business activities. In addition, the cost of defending our intellectual property has been and might continue to be significant. Litigation might be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, enforce patent license and confidentiality agreements or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. In addition, third parties could commence litigation against us seeking to invalidate our patents or to have determined that our patents are not infringed, or are not essential or invalid or unenforceable. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could require significant amounts of time by key members of executive management and other personnel that, in turn, could negatively affect our results of operations. Moreover, third parties could circumvent certain of our patents through design changes. Any of these events could adversely affect our prospects for realizing future revenue. Any Disposition of Our Modem Business Could Result in Charges or Expenditures. Due to the rapidly changing landscape of digital baseband technology, we are evaluating a number of options for the modem portion of our business, which could include the disposition of our modem business through a sale or closure. Any disposition could result in an impairment of assets related to the modem business and could also result in a repositioning charge and a significant reduction to our technology solutions revenue. We Might Face Claims by Third Parties That We Infringe Their Intellectual Property. A number of third parties publicly have claimed that they own patents essential to various wireless Standards. Certain of our technology solutions are designed to comply with these Standards. If any of our technology solutions are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, we could be required to redesign the technology solutions, take a license from the third party, pay damages to the third party or indemnify a customer or supplier for its damages or other losses. If we are not able to negotiate a license and/or if we cannot economically redesign the technology solutions, we could be prohibited from marketing the technology solutions. In this case, our prospects for realizing future revenue could be adversely affected. If we are required to obtain licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more patent holders, this could have an adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our wireless technology solutions. In addition, the associated costs to defend such claims could be significant and could divert the attention of key executive management and other personnel. Risks Related to Our Business Strategy, Markets and Competition The Outcome of Potential Domestic Patent Legislation, USPTO Rule Changes, International Patent Rule Changes and Third Party Legal Proceedings Might Affect Our Patent Prosecution, Licensing and Enforcement Strategies. Changes to certain U.S. patent laws and regulations might occur in the future, some or all of which might affect our patent costs, the scope of future patent coverage we secure and remedies we might be awarded in patent litigation, and might require us to reevaluate and modify our patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement strategies. As in prior years, the U.S. Congress might consider modification of select patent laws relating to, among other things, how patent damages are calculated and the procedures for challenging issued patents and where patent lawsuits can be filed in the United States. Additionally, there have been recent U.S. Supreme Court and other court rulings relating to, among other things, the standard for determining whether an invention is obvious, which is a key issue when assessing 15 patentability of new inventions and validity of issued patents, the ability of a patent holder to obtain injunctive relief against infringers and the ability of patent licensees to challenge the patents under which they are licensed. The ruling concerning injunctions might make it more difficult, under some circumstances, for us to obtain injunctive relief against a party that has been found to infringe one or more of our patents, and the ruling regarding patent challenges by licensees could potentially make it easier for our licensees to challenge our patents even though they have already agreed to take a license. In addition, the potential effect of rulings in legal proceedings among third parties might affect our licensing program. We continue to monitor and evaluate our prosecution, licensing and enforcement strategies with regard to these proposals and changes. We Depend on Key Senior Management, Engineering and Licensing Resources. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our directors, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel with specialized licensing, engineering and other skills. The market for such specialized talent in our industry is extremely competitive. In particular, competition exists for qualified individuals with expertise in licensing and with significant engineering experience in cellular and air interface technologies such as WCDMA. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel could be affected by any adverse decisions in any litigation or arbitration and by our ability to offer competitive cash and equity compensation and work environment conditions. The failure to attract and retain such persons with relevant and appropriate experience could interfere with our ability to enter into new license agreements and undertake additional technology and product development efforts, as well as our ability to meet our strategic objectives. We Might Engage in Acquisitions or Strategic Transactions or Make Investments That Could Result in Significant Changes or Management Disruption and Fail to Enhance Shareholder Value. We continue to evaluate and might acquire businesses, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly-traded and private companies and corporate bonds/notes. Most strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. Acquisitions or strategic investments might not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. In addition, other investments might not generate financial returns or might result in losses due to market volatility, the general level of interest rates and inflation expectations. We could make strategic investments in early-stage companies, which require us to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of those companies. Our share of any such losses would adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently might result in significant challenges, and we might be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of integrating companies include, among others: • retaining key employees; • maintenance of important relationships; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business matters; • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • consolidating research and development operations; and • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. We cannot assure you that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the acquisition. We might not derive any commercial value from the acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we might be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we might obtain. Our Industry Is Subject to Rapid Technological Change, Uncertainty and Shifting Market Opportunities. Our market success depends, in part, on our ability to define and keep pace with changes in industry Standards, technological developments and varying customer requirements. Changes in industry Standards and needs could adversely affect the development of, and demand for, our technology, rendering our technology currently under development obsolete and unmarketable. The patents and applications comprising our portfolio have fixed terms and, if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to these changes through the development or acquisition of new patentable inventions, patents or other technology, we could miss a critical market opportunity, reducing or eliminating our ability to capitalize on our patents, technology solutions or both. Our Technologies Might Not Be Adopted By the Market or Widely Deployed. We invest significant engineering resources in the development of advanced wireless technology and related solutions. These investments might not be recoverable or might not result in meaningful revenue if products based on the technologies in which we invest are not widely deployed. Competing digital wireless technologies could reduce the opportunities for deployment of technologies we develop. If 16 the technologies in which we invest are not adopted in the mainstream markets or in time periods we expect, or if we are unable to secure partner support for our technologies, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The Markets for Our Technology Solutions Might Fail to Materialize in the Manner We Expect. We are positioning our current development projects for the evolving advanced digital wireless markets. Certain of these markets might continue to develop at a slower rate or pace than we expect and might be of a smaller size than we expect. In addition, there could be fewer applications for our technology and products than we expect. The development of advanced wireless markets also could be affected by general economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, pricing of advanced wireless infrastructure and mobile devices, rate of growth in telecommunications services and the availability of capital for, and the high cost of, radio frequency licenses and infrastructure improvements. Failure of the markets for our technologies and/or our products to materialize to the extent or at the rate we expect could reduce our opportunities for sales and licensing and could materially adversely affect our long-term business, financial condition and operating results. Market Projections and Data are Forward-Looking in Nature. Our strategy is based on our own projections and on analyst, industry observer and expert projections, which are forward-looking in nature and are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The validity of their and our assumptions, the timing and scope of the 3G and future markets, economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, pricing of products, growth in wireless telecommunications services that would be delivered on 3G devices and availability of capital for infrastructure improvements could affect these predictions. The inaccuracy of any of these projections could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, market data upon which we rely is based on third party reports that might be inaccurate. We Face Substantial Competition from Companies with Greater Resources. Competition in the wireless telecommunications industry is intense. We face competition from companies developing other and similar technologies, including existing companies with in-house development teams and new competitors to the market. Many current and potential competitors might have advantages over us, including: (i) existing royalty-free cross-licenses to competing and emerging technologies; (ii) longer operating histories and presence in key markets; (iii) greater name recognition; (iv) access to larger customer bases; (v) economies of scale and cost structure advantages; and (vi) greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources. In particular, our more limited resources and capabilities might adversely affect our competitive position if the market were to move toward the provision of an existing complete technology platform solution that larger equipment manufacturers have the ability to provide. Our Technology and Product Development Activities Might Experience Delays. We might experience technical, financial, resource or other difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies and products. Delays might have adverse financial effects and might allow competitors with comparable technology and/or product offerings to gain a commercial advantage over us. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have adequate staffing or that our development efforts will ultimately be successful. Moreover, our technologies have not been fully tested in commercial use, and it is possible that they might not perform as expected. In addition, we might experience adverse effects due to potential delays or denials in obtaining export licenses for the transfer of certain of our technologies, which might be deemed controlled technology under U.S. export control laws, to certain countries. In such cases, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected and our ability to secure new customers and other business opportunities could be diminished. We Rely on Relationships with Third Parties to Develop and Deploy Technology Solutions. Successful exploitation of our technology solutions is partially dependent on the establishment and success of relationships with equipment producers and other industry participants. Delays or failure to enter into licensing or other relationships to facilitate technology development efforts or delays or failure to enter into technology licensing agreements to secure integration of additional functionality could impair our ability to introduce into the market portions of our technology and resulting products, cause us to miss critical market windows or impair our ability to remain competitive. Other Risks Currency Fluctuations Could Negatively Affect Future Product Sales or Royalty Revenues or Increase the U.S. Dollar Cost of Our Activities and International Strategic Investments. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which might change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. We operate and invest globally. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates might negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: 17 • If the effective price of products sold by our customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty revenues. • Assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries might be subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which might affect our reported earnings. Our exposure to foreign currencies might increase as we expand into new markets. • Certain of our revenues, such as royalty revenues, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. If these revenues are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, weakening of currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our near term revenues and cash flows. In addition, continued weakening of currency values in selected regions over an extended period of time could adversely affect our future revenues and cash flows. • Certain of our operating and investing costs, such as foreign patent prosecution, are based in foreign currencies. If these costs are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, strengthening currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our near term operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. In addition, continued strengthening of currency values in selected regions over an extended period of time could adversely affect our future operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. • We could, in the future, engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and earnings because they might require the payment of structuring fees, and they might limit the U.S. dollar value of royalties from licensees’ sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. We Face Risks From Doing Business in Global Markets. A significant portion of our business opportunities exist in a number of international markets. Accordingly, we could be subject to the effects of a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including: difficulty in protecting our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; enforcing contractual commitments in foreign jurisdictions or against foreign corporations; government regulations, tariffs and other applicable trade barriers; currency control regulations and variability in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currency; social, economic and political instability; natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; potentially adverse tax consequences; and general delays in remittance of and difficulties collecting non-U.S. payments. In addition, we also are subject to risks specific to the individual countries in which we, our customers and our licensees do business. Changes to Our Current Calculation of Tax Liabilities Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Consolidated Financial Condition or Results of Operations. The calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. We are subject to examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing jurisdictions on various tax matters, including challenges to various positions we assert in our filings and foreign tax liability and withholding. With our January 1, 2007 adoption of FIN 48, certain tax contingencies are recognized when they are determined to be more likely than not to occur. Although we believe we have adequately accrued for tax contingencies that meet this criterion, we might be required to pay taxes in excess of the amounts we have accrued. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were certain tax contingencies that did not meet the applicable criteria to record an accrual. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The High Amount of Capital Required to Obtain Radio Frequency Licenses, Deploy and Expand Wireless Networks and Obtain New Subscribers Could Slow the Growth of the Wireless Communications Industry and Adversely Affect Our Business. Our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. In order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the United States and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. Industry growth might be affected by the amount of capital required to obtain licenses to use new frequencies, deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services, expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services and obtain new subscribers. The significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions might slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand advanced wireless networks. Our growth could be adversely affected if this occurs. Consolidation in the Wireless Communications Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The wireless communications industry has experienced consolidation of participants and sales of participants or their businesses, and these trends might continue. Any concentration or sale within the wireless industry might reduce the number of licensing opportunities or, in some instances, result in the loss or elimination of existing royalty obligations. Further, if wireless carriers consolidate with companies that utilize technologies competitive with our technologies, we could lose market opportunities. 18 Approved Stock Repurchase Programs Might Not Result in a Positive Return of Capital to Stockholders and Might Expose Us to Counterparty Risk. Our approved stock repurchases might not return value to stockholders because the market price of the stock might decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Stock repurchase programs are intended to deliver stockholder value over the long-term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the program’s effectiveness. Unauthorized Use or Disclosure of Our Confidential Information Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We enter into contractual relationships governing the protection of our confidential and proprietary information with our employees, consultants and prospective and existing customers and strategic partners. If we are unable to timely detect the unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary or other confidential information or if we are unable to enforce our rights under such agreements, the misappropriation of such information could harm our business. The Price of Our Common Stock Could Continue to be Volatile. Historically, we have had large fluctuations in the price of our common stock, and such fluctuations could continue. From January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2008, our common stock has traded as low as $13.81 per share and as high as $36.91 per share. Factors that might contribute to fluctuations in our stock price include, but are not limited to: general stock market conditions; general market conditions for the wireless communications industry; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; investor perceptions as to the likelihood of achievement of near-term goals; changes in market share of significant licensees; announcements concerning litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings in which we are involved; announcements concerning licensing and product matters; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions or divestitures; and our operating results. If Wireless Handsets Are Perceived to Pose Health and Safety Risks, Demand for Products of Our Licensees and Customers Could Decrease. Media reports and certain studies have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets might be linked to health concerns, such as brain tumors, other malignancies and genetic damage to blood, and might interfere with electronic medical devices, such as pacemakers, telemetry and delicate medical equipment. Growing concerns over radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, could discourage the use of wireless handsets and cause a decrease in demand for the products of our licensees and customers. In addition, concerns over safety risks posed by the use of wireless handsets while driving and the effect of any resulting legislation could reduce demand for the products of our licensees and customers. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 