ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They may be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Except to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. We have a history of losses and there can be no assurance that we will become or remain profitable or that losses will not continue to occur. On a pro forma combined consolidated basis, SGS and SHC had a net loss of $11.7 million and $14.7 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We may continue to incur reported losses for the foreseeable future. To support growth in the fourth quarter of 2008, we increased our spending levels on sales, operations and administration and our investments in new solution centers and technology. As a result, we will need to significantly increase revenues or profit margins to maintain profitability. If our revenues or gross margins do not increase to support the higher levels of operating expenses and if new service offerings are not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. A substantial portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients, and the loss of one or more of these clients would materially reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our business. We have derived and believe that we will continue to derive in the near term most of our revenue from a few major clients. Two of our largest clients are global computer companies, and the other client is a satellite radio provider. Revenues from these three clients comprised 17%, 17% and 12%, respectively, of the revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Although we generally enter into long-term contracts with our clients, our contracts generally allow our clients to terminate earlier. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these major clients or that, if we were to lose one or more of our major clients, we would be able to replace such clients with clients that generate a comparable amount of revenues. A number of factors could cause us to lose business or revenue from a client, and some of these factors are not predictable and are beyond our control. For example, a client may demand price reductions, change its outsourcing strategy, move work in-house or reduce previously forecasted demand. In addition, the volume of work we perform for specific clients may vary from year to year. In most cases, if a client terminates its contract with us or does not meet its forecasted demand, we have no contractual recourse even if we have hired and trained service professionals to provide services to the client. Thus, a major client in one year may not provide the same level of revenue in any subsequent year. 12 Table of Contents Consequently, the loss of one or more of our major clients, or the inability to generate anticipated revenues from them, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to effect sales to a small number of clients and any revenue growth will depend on our success selling additional services to our large clients and expanding our client base. Our revenue is highly dependent on a few industries and any decrease in demand for outsourced business processes in these industries could reduce our revenue and seriously harm our business. Most of our clients are concentrated in the technology, computing, software consumer product and communications industries. The success of our business largely depends on continued demand for our services from clients in these industries, as well as on trends in these industries to outsource business processes on a global basis. A downturn in any of the industries we serve, a slowdown or reversal of the trend to outsource business processes in any of these industries or the introduction of regulations that restrict or discourage companies from outsourcing could result in a decrease in the demand for our services, which in turn could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Other developments may also lead to a decline in the demand for our services in these industries. For example, the industries we primarily serve, particularly the communications industry, have experienced a significant level of consolidation in recent years. Consolidation in any of these industries or acquisitions, particularly involving our clients, may decrease the potential number of buyers of our services. Many of our existing and new clients have begun or plan to consolidate or reduce the number of service providers that they use for various services in various geographies. To the extent that we are not successful in becoming the recipient of the consolidation of services by these clients our business and revenues will suffer. Any significant reduction in, or the elimination of, the use of the services we provide within any of these industries would reduce our revenue and cause our profitability to decline. Our clients may experience rapid changes in their prospects, substantial price competition and pressure on their results of operations. This may result in increasing pressure on us from clients in these key industries to lower our prices, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may not develop in ways that we currently anticipate due to negative public reaction to outsourcing and recently proposed legislation. We have based our growth strategy on certain assumptions regarding our industry, services and future demand in the market for our services. However, the trend to outsource business processes may not continue and could reverse. Outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the U.S. and elsewhere. For example, many organizations and public figures in the U.S. have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in the U.S. In fact the recent stimulus package announced by the Federal government of the United States of America under President Obama has indicated that it will strive to generate new jobs for Americans. It has also indicated that the stimulus package may limit income tax credits for companies that off-shore American jobs. This may also have a significant effect on government regulated companies or financial institutions or other businesses that have recently received financial aid from the U.S. Federal government. There has been recent publicity about some negative experiences that organizations have had with outsourcing, such as theft and misappropriation of sensitive client data. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to off-shore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an off-shore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards off-shore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate solely out of facilities located in the United States or Canada. 13 Table of Contents A variety of U.S. federal and state legislation has been proposed that, if enacted, could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing services outside the U.S. For example, legislation has been proposed that would require off-shore providers of services requiring direct interaction with clients’ customers to identify to clients’ customers where the off-shore provider is located. Because most of our clients are located in the U.S., any expansion of existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting off-shore outsourcing could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is possible that legislation could be adopted that would restrict U.S. private sector companies that have federal or state government contracts from outsourcing their services to off-shore service providers. This would also affect our ability to attract or retain clients that have these contracts. We may have difficulty obtaining financing. We have incurred debt in connection with the acquisition of SHC. In addition, we have historically needed financing to support growth in our business. Although we believe that we have adequate financing to support our current internal initiatives, there can be no assurance that we will continue to have adequate financing to do so. We believe that the current access to new debt markets in the United States is very limited due to the volatility in the global financial markets and the current economic recession. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with the terms of our credit facility during the course of 2009. If we are not, our bank lenders may require that we immediately repay all amounts outstanding, which we may be unable to do, or may impose additional terms and conditions or higher pricing upon us that may reduce our future profitability and liquidity. If that occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms that would be acceptable to us. Our financial results may be impacted by significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A substantial amount of our operating costs is incurred in foreign currencies. In recent periods, the U.S. dollar has dropped in value relative to other currencies and therefore our cost of providing services has increased accordingly. In many cases we bill our clients in U.S. dollar denominated amounts and incur costs in the host country in local currency. Any continued significant fluctuations in the currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of countries in which we operate may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. With the exception of certain hedging relating to the Canadian dollar and the Indian rupee, we are not currently engaged in other currency hedging transactions. We are also beginning to do business in other countries in Latin America and in the Philippines. We do not yet hedge currencies from these countries for costs incurred. To the extent that in the future we do not hedge these currencies and the exchange rate relative to the U.S dollar fluctuates, our results from operations could suffer or benefit from such fluctuation. The loss of key executives could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The success of our ongoing business will be dependent upon the continued service of a relatively small group of our key executives. We believe that we have assembled a group of industry veterans to lead our company. This group in most cases has entered into employment contracts with us that provide various protections related to non-solicitation of employees and clients, non-competition and confidentiality with our business in the event that their employment is terminated. These executives, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Scott Murray, are critical to our future success. In the event that we are not able to enforce the provisions of these employment contracts and these executives choose to compete with us, we may suffer material harm in our ability to generate future revenue and profitability. The loss of one or more of these key employees or failure to recruit, hire, train and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our business may be impacted by the performance of our clients. The current economic environment and global recession is having a negative impact on the revenue of many of our clients. Our revenue and call volume is often highly correlated with units sold, renewals from our clients’ customers, and revenue of our clients. In addition, many of our clients are seeking to consolidate their current group of multiple service providers to a smaller more manageable group that is able to provide integrated service offerings on a global basis. In some cases we do not currently offer or have service locations in those geographic locations where our clients are seeking services. Our ability to sustain growth and our profitability in the current environment is very dependent upon our ability to maintain and/or gain a greater share of the business within our clients, and to attract new clients. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Moreover, we are exposed to additional risks related to our customers’ ability to pay and the non-payment of our accounts receivables. The economic slowdown, coupled with tightened credit availability, could adversely affect our customers’ liquidity and cause them to delay or reduce their payments to us. Such delays or reductions or the non-payment by our customers of receivables owed to us may require us to incur a bad debt expense. To the extent that one of our major clients should file for bankruptcy protection or otherwise fail, it could have a material effect on our future business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to achieve incremental revenue growth or increased profitability. Our strategy calls for us to achieve incremental revenue growth and increased profitability through initiatives, such as opening new off shore service locations in places like China, Eastern Europe, Russia, Japan, South Africa and South America, the addition or expansion of services, such as sales services, warranty services, credit and collection services, data management and hosting, and language translation and interpretation services, the introduction of front-end technology-driven service solutions for self-help, home-shoring of agents and other technology driven solutions, and operational improvements in areas such as employee attrition, site capacity utilization, centralization of certain administrative services, productivity rates, use of technology and other operating metrics. However, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties or delays in implementing these initiatives, and any such difficulties or delays would adversely affect our future operating results. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations. SHC has experienced rapid growth over the past several years, and we anticipate future expansion. With such expansion, we may not be able to continue to effectively manage our operations. Management of a rapidly growing business depends on a number of factors, including our ability to (i) initiate, develop and maintain client relationships and marketing operations, (ii) recruit, motivate and retain qualified management and hourly personnel, (iii) rapidly identify, acquire or lease suitable service center facilities on acceptable terms and complete build-outs of such facilities in a timely and economic fashion, (iv) maintain the quality of the services and products that we provide to our clients, and (v) deploy appropriate technology. We expect that rapid growth will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operations, employees and resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our expanding operations or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. If we were unable to manage our business effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Our success may be affected by our ability to complete and integrate new service centers on a timely and cost effective basis. We are actively pursuing a growth strategy of opening new service centers, including our recent establishment of service centers in El Salvador, the Philippines, Egypt and Tunisia. Some of our new service centers are or may be located in jurisdictions like China, Eastern Europe, Russia, Japan, South Africa and South America where we have not done business in the past. We are also beginning to work with various state and local governments in the United States of America to establish new on-shore service locations. The partnership with state and local governments may also include other technology and communication partners. To the extent that 15 Table of Contents this program is successful and receives support under the U.S. government’s proposed stimulus package it may allow us to create a substantial number of new jobs over the next several years in the United States of America. This in turn could require us to open new centers in the United States. The rate and success of new service center openings is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. These contingencies include, among others, our ability to secure suitable sites on a timely basis and on satisfactory terms, our ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel, the availability of adequate capital resources and the successful integration of new service centers into existing operations and local regulatory matters and customs. A new service center involves significant capital expenditures for both the acquisition and improvement of the site. Each service center must ramp up in utilization to become profitable, which can typically take 6-12 months to achieve. There can be no assurance that we can open new service centers on a timely or cost effective basis or that once opened, the service centers will be profitable. Our operating results are subject to fluctuation because our contracts are primarily short term and subject to early termination by our clients. We typically enter into one- to three-year contracts with our clients, most of which are typically renewable on an annual basis and may be terminated by the client at any time for convenience. Although some of our contracts require the client to pay a contractually agreed amount based on a minimum level of expected call volume, the contracts do not assure us a specific level of revenues and they generally do not designate us as the client’s exclusive service provider. There can be no assurance that we can renew or extend our contracts with our clients. Although some of these contracts require the client to pay a contractually agreed upon amount in the event of early termination, there can be no assurance that we will be able to collect such amount or that such amount, if received, will sufficiently compensate us for the significant investment often times we have made to support the cancelled program or for the revenues we may lose as a result of the early termination. We may be unable to cost-effectively attract and retain qualified personnel, which could materially increase our costs. Our business will also be dependent on our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, including individuals with significant experience in the industries that we have targeted. The CRM industry is labor intensive and is characterized by high monthly employee turnover. Any increase in our employee turnover rate would increase our recruiting and training costs, decrease our operating effectiveness and productivity and delay or deter us from taking on additional business. Also, the introduction of significant new clients or the implementation of new large-scale programs may require us to recruit, hire and train personnel at an accelerated rate. In addition, some of our facilities are located in geographic areas with relatively low unemployment rates, thus potentially making it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to hire, train and retain sufficient qualified personnel to adequately staff our business. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors with greater resources or capabilities and may lose business if clients decide to reduce the amount of services outsourced. The market in which we compete is highly competitive and fragmented. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future. Our competitors include small firms offering specific applications, divisions of large entities, large independent firms and, most significantly, the in-house operations of clients or potential clients. A number of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other capabilities and resources than we do. Moreover, there can be no assurance that additional competitors with greater resources will not enter the market. Because we compete with the in-house operations of existing or potential clients, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if our existing clients decide to provide in-house CRM and other BPO solutions that currently are outsourced or if potential clients retain or increase their in-house 16 Table of Contents customer service and product support capabilities. In addition, competitive pressures from current or future competitors or in-house operations could cause our services to lose market acceptance or result in significant price erosion, which would have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our customers may in the future seek to consolidate services that we provide, which may in turn reduce the amount of work we perform for them. Some of these existing and future competitors have greater financial, human and other resources, longer operating histories, greater technological expertise, more recognizable brand names and more established relationships than we do in the industries that we currently serve or may serve in the future. Some of our competitors may enter into merger, strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, more established companies in order to increase their ability to address client needs. Increased competition, pricing pressure or loss of market share could reduce our operating margin, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations and sales subject us to risks associated with unexpected events. We conduct business various countries outside of the United States, including Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Italy, Ireland, Spain, Sweden, France, Germany, Poland, Bulgaria, India, the Philippines, El Salvador, Egypt, Tunisia, the Dominican Republic and Costa Rica. Our international operations accounted for approximately 77.0% and 74.8% of our pro forma revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. A key component of our growth strategy is our continued international expansion, especially in lower-cost labor markets, such as China, Eastern Europe, Russia, Japan, South Africa and South America. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully market, sell and deliver our services in these markets, or that we will be able to successfully expand international operations. The global reach of our business could cause us to be subject to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing events and circumstances. The following factors, among others, could adversely affect our business and earnings: • failure to properly comply with foreign laws and regulations applicable to our foreign activities including, without limitation, employment law requirements; • compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting regulations in the countries where we operate, including employment laws, intellectual property requirements, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws; • difficulties in managing foreign operations and appropriate levels of staffing; • longer collection cycles; • seasonal reductions in business activities, particularly throughout Europe; • proper compliance with local tax laws which can be complex and may result in unintended adverse tax consequences; • anti-American sentiment due to the war in Iraq and other American policies that may be unpopular in certain countries; • difficulties in enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems; • fluctuations in exchange rates that may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of services we provide in foreign markets where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency and revenues are earned in U.S. dollars or other currency; • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate; • restrictions on downsizing operations in Europe and other jurisdictions (i.e. regulatory or union restrictions) and expenses and delays associated with any such activities; and • changes to or elimination of the international tax holiday for companies doing business in India. 17 Table of Contents As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our global operations and reduce our global sales, adversely affecting our business. Our revenues and costs are subject to quarterly variations that may adversely affect quarterly financial results. We have experienced, and in the future could experience, quarterly variations in revenues as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: • the timing of new client contracts; • the timing of new service offerings or modifications in client strategies; • our ability to attract and retain and increase sales to existing customers; • the timing of acquisitions of businesses and products by us and our competitors; • our ability to effectively build and start-up new solution centers; • product and price competition; • our ability to build an integrated service offering on a common technology platform; • changes in our operating expenses; • software defects or other product quality problems; • the ability to implement new technologies on a timely basis; • the expiration or termination of existing contracts; • the timing of increased expenses incurred to obtain and support new business; • currency fluctuations; and • changes in our revenue mix among our various service offerings. In addition, our planned staffing levels, investments and other operating expenditures are based on revenue forecasts provided by our clients. If actual revenues are below these forecasts or our own expectations in any given quarter, our business, results of operations and financial condition would likely be materially adversely affected for that quarter and thereafter. Our financial results may be adversely affected by increases in labor-related costs. Because a significant portion of our operating costs relate to labor costs, an increase in U.S. or foreign wages, costs of employee benefits or taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, over the past several years, healthcare costs have increased at a rate much greater than that of general cost or price indices. In addition, we fund payroll and payroll related expenses in local currencies, many of which have recently increased in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Increases in our pricing may not fully compensate us for increases in labor and other costs incurred in providing services. Some of our facilities are located in jurisdictions, such as France, Italy and Germany, where the labor laws make it difficult or expensive to temporarily or permanently lay off hourly workers. Such laws will make it more expensive for us to respond to adverse economic conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our pricing or reduce our workforce to fully compensate for the increases in the costs to provide services. 18 Table of Contents Our profitability will be adversely affected if we do not maintain sufficient capacity utilization. Our profitability is influenced significantly by our capacity utilization of our service centers. Because our business consists of inbound contacts from end-users, we have no control of when or how many end user customer contacts are made. Moreover, we have significantly higher utilization during peak (weekday) periods than during off-peak (night and weekend) periods and therefore we need to reserve capacity at our service centers to anticipate peak periods. In the future, we may consolidate or close under-performing service centers in order to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. If we close service centers in the future due to insufficient customer demand, we may be required to record restructuring or impairment charges, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. These may also negatively effect our compliance with our debt covenants with our banks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain optimal service center capacity utilization. A decline in end-user acceptance of our clients’ products will decrease demand for our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We typically charge our clients based on the number of inbound calls that we provide, or the amount of time our service professionals spend with end-users relating to our clients’ products. In some cases we provide in-bound sales services to our clients, whereby we are paid based on our level of sales success. To the extent there is a decline in spending for our clients’ products, whether as a result of a decline in product acceptance, the technology, consumer electronics or communications industries, or the economy in general, our business will be adversely affected. There are a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer and business spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable income (such as employment, business conditions, taxation and interest rates) and the ability of our clients to sell their products, most of which are outside of our control. There can be no assurance that spending for our clients’ products will not be affected by adverse economic conditions, thereby affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our financial position and operating results. We intend to pursue acquisitions of companies or assets in order to enhance our market position and/or expand the types of BPO services that we offer to our clients. We may also acquire minority interest in certain companies or enter into joint venture arrangements with other parties, which may include existing clients. We may also pursue certain acquisitions on an unsolicited basis, which may cause management distractions and increased legal costs. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to consummate such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we cannot be sure that they will ultimately strengthen our competitive position, or that our clients, employees or investors will not view them negatively. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and harm our operating results or financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate these acquisitions into our operations and may lose key clients, management or not achieve the synergies expected from the acquisition or investment. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose clients. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our service centers, computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications interruption or failure, natural disaster and other similar events. If we experience a temporary or permanent interruption at one or more of our service centers and/or datacenters, through casualty, operating malfunction or otherwise, our business could be materially adversely affected and we may be required to pay contractual 19 Table of Contents damages to some clients or allow some clients to terminate or renegotiate their contracts with us. While we maintain property and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not adequately compensate us for all losses that we may incur. To be successful, we will need to continue to provide our clients with reliable service. Some of the events that could adversely affect our ability to deliver reliable service include physical damage to our network operations centers, disruptions beyond our control, sabotage or terrorist attacks, power surges or outages, and software defects. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, there can be no assurance that our existing coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The occurrence of errors could result in a loss of data to us or our clients, which could cause a loss of revenues, failure to achieve product acceptance, increased insurance costs, product returns, legal claims, including product liability claims, against us, delays in payment to us by clients, increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions, diversion of resources, injury to our reputation, or damages to our efforts to build brand awareness, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our market share and, in turn, our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on third-party technology that, if it should become unavailable, contain defects, or infringe on another party’s intellectual property rights, could result in increased costs or delays in the production and improvement of our products or result in liability claims. We license critical third-party software that we incorporate into our services on a non-exclusive basis. If our relations with any of these third-party software providers are impaired or the third-party software infringes upon another party’s intellectual property rights, our business could be harmed. The operation of our business would also be impaired if errors occur in the third-party software that it utilizes. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in third-party software because the software is not within our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in this software. There can be no assurance that these third parties will continue to invest the appropriate levels of resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance the capabilities of their software. If the cost of licensing any of these third-party software products increases, our gross margin levels could significantly decrease. Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. Outstanding redeemable warrants to purchase an aggregate of 31,250,000 shares of common stock issued in our IPO became exercisable on October 17, 2008. These public warrants expire on October 17, 2011 and are not eligible for cashless exercise treatment. In addition, Ares holds non-redeemable warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,500,000 shares of common stock, which became exercisable on October 17, 2008. The Ares warrants are able to be cashless exercised by the holder. All of these outstanding warrants have an exercise price of $6.00 per share. As of March 6, 2009, the closing price of our shares traded on the New York Alternext US LLC, was $3.15 per share. In addition, when these warrants are exercised, sales of the underlying common shares if sold in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our existing common stock and reduce shareholder value. We must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established control framework and to report on our management’s conclusion as to the effectiveness of these internal controls over financial reporting beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. As a result of our request and the SEC’s concurrence, we are not 20 Table of Contents required to complete an assessment of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules there under for the year ended December 31, 2008. The requested accommodation was granted by the SEC on October 22, 2008. We will be required to have an independent registered public accounting firm test the internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009 and subsequent years. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect future results of operations and our stock price. We are likely to incur significant costs to comply with these requirements. We may in the future discover areas of internal controls over financial reporting that need improvement, particularly with respect to any businesses acquired in the future. There can be no assurance that remedial measures will result in adequate internal controls over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to implement the required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our auditors are unable to provide an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. There can be no assurance that New York Alternext US LLC will continue to list our securities on its exchange, and any delisting could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our units, common stock and warrants are listed on New York Alternext US LLC, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on New York Alternext US LLC in the future. If New York Alternext US LLC delists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are unable to list our securities on another exchange, our securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, or “pink sheets.” As a result, we could face significant adverse consequences, including but not limited to the following: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; • a reduced liquidity for our securities; • a decreased ability to obtain new financing or issue new securities on favorable terms in the future; • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and • a decreased ability of our security holders to sell their securities in certain states. Stockholders’ interests in us will be diluted significantly by the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock, which could affect the market price of our common stock. The Series A Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $6.00 per share. As of December 31, 2008 the Series A Preferred Stock may be converted into an aggregate of 25.3 million shares of our common stock. The Series A Preferred Stock has an annual dividend rate of 3% until March 11, 2009 and 5% beginning on March 11, 2009, subject to an increase to 10% upon the occurrence of certain events, calculated semi-annually. Accrued dividends may be paid, at our option, by increasing the stated value of the Series A Preferred Stock by an equal amount, which amount is convertible into shares of our common stock at the conversion price of $6.00. On March 11, 2009, we also amended the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock to remove the ability of the holder to force redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock. This change will cause us to present the amounts representing Series A Preferred Stock in stockholders’ equity on our 21 Table of Contents balance sheet in the first quarter of 2009. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock terms were amended such that we can request conversion to common stock only after August 7, 2011 and the price for us to force conversion to common stock was reduced from $12.00 per share to $9.00 per share as quoted for 30 consecutive trading days so long as there are at least 20 million common shares in our public stock float. To the extent the Series A Preferred Stock is converted into shares of our common stock, the issuance of substantial numbers of shares of common stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities and on our ability to obtain future public or private financing. We may also seek to modify the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock in the future and any alteration of terms could have a dilutive effect on our common stockholders and warrant holders The Series A Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock and warrants with respect to distributions upon our liquidation. The Series A Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock and warrants for purposes of any liquidation event. Accordingly, as long as Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, no distributions upon liquidation may be made to the holders of our common stock unless the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have received distributions equal to their liquidation preference, which is the greater of the stated value, initially $1,000 per share, plus accrued dividends, and the amount payable to such holders had all of the Series A Preferred Stock been converted into our common stock. As a result, it is possible that, upon liquidation, all of the amounts available for distribution to our equity holders would be paid to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and our other stockholders and warrant holders would not receive any payment. Ares is our largest stockholder and has significant influence and control over our management and affairs. Ares owns approximately 73% of our common stock on an as converted basis, based on our outstanding shares as of March 10, 2009 and assuming (i) conversion of all of the Series A Preferred Stock and (ii) no exercise of any of our outstanding warrants to purchase 38,750,000 shares of our common stock. Ares is entitled to appoint to our board of directors a number of directors proportional to its ownership percentage. In addition, in certain circumstances, we are obligated to issue to Ares shares of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, $0.001 par value per share that would further increase Ares’ ownership of our company by approximately 1%. As a result, Ares has significant influence and control over our management and affairs. Ares could make it more difficult or even impossible for a third party to acquire us without its consent. The holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have the right to approve mergers, consolidations, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets unless the consideration payable with respect to each share of Series A Preferred Stock is an amount in cash that is more than 150% of the conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock. This right continues for so long as 30% or more of the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock first issued to Ares remain outstanding, or for so long as the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock represent, in the aggregate, 20% or more of our equity on an as-converted basis. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock have registration rights, and the exercise of these rights could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have registration rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to use best efforts to file registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on up to four occasions to register shares of common stock issued upon the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock and upon exercise of the certain warrants held by Ares to acquire up to 7,500,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $6.00 per share. Any sale of a significant number of shares of common stock by holders of the Series A Preferred Stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 