ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to buy our common stock. It is possible that risks and uncertainties not listed below may arise or become material in the future and affect our business, results of operations or the price of our common stock. Negative Developments In The Financial Industry, The Domestic and International Credit Markets, and The Economy In General Pose Significant Challenges For Our Industry and Us and Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. Negative developments that began in the latter half of 2007 and that have continued since then in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in unprecedented volatility and disruption in the financial markets, a general economic downturn and a tepid economic recovery, both nationally and in our primary markets in Massachusetts and Connecticut. As a result, commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances deteriorated at many institutions and have not fully recovered, and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. As a result, we may face the following risks: • economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may cause the credit quality of our loan portfolios to deteriorate; • market developments that affect consumer confidence may cause adverse changes in payment patterns by our customers, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities; • the processes that we use to estimate our allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on judgments, such as forecasts of economic conditions, that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation; • the value of our securities portfolio may decline; and • we face increased regulation of our industry, and the costs of compliance with such regulation may increase. These conditions or similar ones may continue to persist or worsen, causing us to experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility because market interest rates change over time. In a period of 39 Table of Contents rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid thereby requiring us to reinvest those cash flows at lower interest rates. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2013, the fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, consisting of agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt obligations, municipal obligations and preferred stock, totaled $264.6 million. Unrealized net losses on these available-for-sale securities totaled $501,000 at December 31, 2013 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity using income simulation models that estimate the change in our net interest income over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net income at risk measures the risk of a decline in earnings due to potential short-term and long term changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2013, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the model projects that we would experience a 1.29% decrease in net interest income over the following 12 months. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management of Market Risk.” Our Increased Emphasis on Commercial Real Estate and Commercial and Industrial Lending May Expose Us to Increased Lending Risks. At December 31, 2013, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $862.6 million, or 45.8% of our total loans, and our portfolio of commercial and industrial loans totaled $293.1 million, or 15.6% of our total loans. These loans have increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio in recent years and generally have more risk and require a commensurately higher loan loss allowance than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate or commercial and industrial loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate or commercial and industrial loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Because we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses because of the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any such increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. Our Emphasis On Residential Mortgage Loans and Home Equity Loans And Lines Of Credit Exposes Us To Lending Risks. At December 31, 2013, $466.6 million, or 24.8%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans and $179.5 million, or 9.5%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans and lines of credit. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans and lines of credit to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. 40 Table of Contents The Merger Agreement May Be Terminated In Accordance With Its Terms and the Merger May Not Be Completed. The Merger Agreement is subject to a number of conditions that must be fulfilled to complete the merger. Those conditions include: approval of the merger agreement by our and Rockville Financial’s stockholders, receipt of requisite regulatory approvals, absence of orders prohibiting completion of the merger, the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties by both parties and the performance by both parties of their covenants and agreements, and the receipt by both parties of legal opinions from their respective tax counsels. If these conditions to the closing of the Merger are not fulfilled, then the Merger may not be completed. In addition, if the Merger is not completed by September 14, 2014, either Rockville Financial or we may choose not to proceed with the Merger, and the parties can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time, before or after stockholder approval. In addition, Rockville Financial may elect to terminate the merger agreement in certain other circumstances. Termination of the Merger Agreement Could Negatively Impact Us. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, our business may be adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger. In addition, if the Merger Agreement is terminated, the market price of our common stock might decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and our board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find a party willing to offer equivalent or more attractive consideration than the consideration we are receiving in this merger. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, we may be required to pay a termination fee of $15 million to Rockville Financial. We Will Be Subject to Business Uncertainties and Contractual Restrictions While the Merger is Pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us and consequently on Rockville Financial. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and could cause customers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us. Retention of certain employees may be challenging during the pendency of the merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the business, our business could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts us from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs without the consent of Rockville Financial. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise before the completion of the merger. Income From Secondary Mortgage Market Operations is Volatile, and We May Incur Losses or Charges With Respect to Our Secondary Mortgage Market Operations Which Would Negatively Affect Our Earnings. We generally sell in the secondary market the fixed-rate residential mortgage loans that we originate, earning non-interest income. When interest rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall and may reduce the number of loans available for sale. When interest rates fall, the demand for fixed-rate mortgage loans also tends to fall and may reduce the number of loans available for sale. In addition to interest rate levels, weak or deteriorating economic conditions also tend to reduce loan demand. Although we sell loans in the secondary market without recourse, we are required to give customary representations and warranties to the buyers. If we breach those representations and warranties, the buyers can require us to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase. Because we generally retain the servicing rights on the loans we sell in the secondary market, we are required to record a mortgage servicing right asset, which we test quarterly for impairment. The value of mortgage servicing rights tend to increase with rising interest rates and to decrease with falling interest rates. If we are required to take an impairment charge, that would hurt our earnings. 41 Table of Contents If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume and trends in our non-performing and classified loans and charge-offs. We also evaluate economic conditions and general market collateral valuations. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our allowance for loan losses was 0.71% of total loans and 83.8% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2013, compared to 0.67% of total loans and 82.2% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2012. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further Declines in the Value of Certain Investment Securities Could Require Write-Downs, Which Would Reduce Our Earnings. At December 31, 2013, our investment portfolio included $1.6 million in trust preferred securities and $30.6 million in municipal bonds. In addition, we have two cost basis investments totaling $1.4 million. We review our investment securities portfolio at each quarter and reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its current carrying value, we are required to assess whether the decline is other-than-temporary. Management evaluated the investment portfolio and has determined that no declines in the fair value of the Company’s security portfolio are deemed to represent other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) as of December 31, 2013. In 2012, management recognized a pre-tax, non-cash OTTI charge of $165,000 on a corporate bond. Management based its assessment on the issuer’s credit ratings, credit outlook, payment status and financial condition, the length of time the bond has been in a loss position, the size of the loss position and other meaningful information. Management has concluded that no other securities have experienced impairments that are other-than-temporary. During 2012 and 2011, management determined that a venture capital investment carried at cost had suffered impairment that was considered other-than-temporary. The cost basis of the investment was written down by $37,000 and $99,000 in 2012 and 2011, respectively, to fair value as a new cost basis and the write down was accounted for as a realized loss and was included in earnings. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an impairment that is other-than-temporary. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the expected cash flows, failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. An other-than-temporary impairment write-down would reduce our earnings. 42 Table of Contents Regulatory Reform May Have a Material Impact on Our Operations. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”) was passed, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are: • changes to regulatory capital requirements; • creation of new government regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which oversees systemic risk, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which develops and enforces rules for bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products); • potential limitations on federal preemption; • changes to deposit insurance assessments; • regulation of debit interchange fees we earn; • changes in retail banking regulations, including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge; and • changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments. Some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon its enactment. Many provisions, however, will require regulations to be promulgated by various federal agencies to be implemented, some but not all of which have been proposed or finalized by the applicable federal agencies. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have unintended effects, which will not be clear until after implementation. Certain changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to investors in our common stock. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and We May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, our primary federal regulators, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. 43 Table of Contents Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. We face intense competition in making loans and attracting deposits. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings and cooperative institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. The competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loan and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which could reduce net interest income. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. Our Wholesale Funding Sources May Prove Insufficient to Replace Deposits at Maturity and Support Our Future Growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank, reverse repurchase agreements, brokered CDs and proceeds from the sale of loans and securities and liquidity resources of the holding company. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. If The Goodwill That We Recorded In Connection With A Business Acquisition Becomes Impaired, It Could Have A Negative Impact On Our Profitability. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets we acquired in the purchase of another financial institution. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. We determine impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known. At December 31, 2013, our goodwill totaled $41.0 million. While we have recorded no such impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, our future evaluations of goodwill may result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Building Of Market Share Through The Creation Of New Branches Or Loan Production Offices Could Cause Our Expenses To Increase Faster Than Revenues. We have opened two loan production offices and a new branch office in the past two years. We may continue to build market share in our primary market areas by opening new branches or loan production offices. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch or loan production office can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch or loan production office reaches certain economies of scale. We have no assurance any new branches or loan production offices will be successful even after they have been established. 44 Table of Contents Our Estimates Of Discounts On Acquired Loans With Deteriorated Credit Quality May Be Insufficient. Under generally accepted principles for business combinations, there is no loan loss allowance recorded for acquired loans, which are recorded at net fair value on the acquisition date. This net fair value generally includes embedded loss estimates for acquired loans with deteriorated credit quality. These estimates are based on projections of expected cash flows for these problem loans. If the projections are incorrect, the fair value estimates may exceed the actual collectability of the balances, and this may result in the related loans being considered impaired. The Geographic Concentration of Our Markets In Massachusetts and Connecticut Makes Our Business Highly Susceptible To Downturns In These Local Economies and Depressed Banking Markets, Which Could Materially and Adversely Affect Us. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, we are a regional banking franchise concentrated in certain markets in Massachusetts and Connecticut. Our success depends significantly on growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in the geographic markets in which we operate. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in, and further deterioration of, the economic conditions in the markets in which we operate in Massachusetts and Connecticut could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and profitability. A continuing deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business: • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; and • collateral for loans that we make may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the our loans. We Are Dependent On Our Information Technology and Telecommunications Systems and Third-Party Servicers, and Systems Failures, Interruptions or Breaches of Security Could Have An Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we provide our customers the ability to bank remotely, including online over the Internet. The secure transmission of confidential information is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, spam attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant resources to protect 45 Table of Contents against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. Further, we outsource some of the data processing functions used for remote banking, and accordingly we are dependent on the expertise and performance of our third-party providers. To the extent that our activities, the activities of our customers, or the activities of our third-party service providers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and ability to attract and maintain customers and businesses. In addition, a security breach could also subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability and cause reputational damage. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 