ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks. The risk factors listed below include any material changes to and supersede the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009. The risk factors that appear below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Such forward-looking statements are discussed under “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses and there can be no assurance that we will become or remain profitable or that losses will not continue to occur. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had a net loss of $28.6 million. We may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to: • attract and retain an adequate client base; • manage effectively a large global business; • react to changes, including technological changes, in the markets we target or operate in; • deploy our services in additional markets or industry segments; • continue to maintain operating efficiencies in our service centers across the globe; • respond to competitive developments and challenges; • attract and retain experienced and talented personnel; and • establish strategic business relationships. We may not be able to do any of these successfully, and our failure to do so is likely to have a negative impact on our operating results. A substantial portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients, and the loss of one or more of these clients or a decline in end user acceptance of our client’s products would materially reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our business. We have derived, and we believe that we will continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of clients. Revenue from our three largest clients, our three largest clients Dell Inc., the Hewlett-Packard Company and AT&T Inc., which, on a pro forma basis giving effect to our acquisition of EGS Corp. as if it occurred on January 1, 2009, accounted for 19%, 12% and 9%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. Although we generally enter into multi-year contracts with clients, most of which are typically renewable, these contracts generally do not require clients to provide a minimum amount of revenues and allow clients to terminate earlier for convenience. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain, renew or extend our contracts with our major clients. Although some of these contracts require the client to pay a contractually agreed upon amount in the event of early termination, there can be no assurance that we will be able to collect such amount or that such amount, if received, will sufficiently compensate us for any significant investment we may have made to support the cancelled program or for the revenues we may lose as a result of the early termination. 14 Table of Contents There can also be no assurance that if we were to lose one or more of our major clients, we would be able to replace such clients with new clients that generate a comparable amount of revenues. A number of factors could cause us to lose business or revenue from a client, and some of these factors are not predictable and are beyond our control. For example, a client may demand price reductions, change its outsourcing strategy, move work in-house or reduce previously forecasted demand. In addition, the volume of work we perform for specific clients may vary from year to year. In most cases, if a client terminates its contract with us or does not meet its forecasted demand, we would have no contractual recourse even if we have built-out facilities and/or hired and trained service professionals to provide services to the client. Thus, a major client in one year may not provide the same level of revenue in any subsequent year. Consequently, the loss of one or more of our major clients, or the inability to generate anticipated revenues from them, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to effect sales to a small number of clients and any revenue growth will depend on our success selling additional services to our large clients and expanding our client base. We typically charge our clients based on the number of inbound calls that we service, or the amount of time, by the minute or by the hour in most cases, our service professionals spend with end-users relating to our clients’ products. We also provide inbound sales services to our clients, whereby we are paid based on our level of sales success and other client driven metrics. To the extent there is a decline in spending for our clients’ products, whether as a result of a decline in product acceptance or general economic conditions, our business will be adversely affected. There are a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer and business spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable income (such as employment, business conditions, taxation and interest rates) which impact the ability of our clients to sell their products, and most of which are outside of our control. There can be no assurance that spending for our clients’ products will not be affected by adverse economic conditions, thereby affecting our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our revenue is highly dependent on a few industries and any decrease in demand for outsourced business processes in these industries could reduce our revenue and seriously harm our business. Most of our revenue is derived from clients concentrated in the technology, software, computing and telecommunications industries. The success of our business largely depends on continued demand for our services from clients in these industries, as well as on trends in these industries to outsource business processes on a global basis. A downturn in any of the industries we serve, a slowdown or reversal of the trend to outsource business processes in any of these industries or the introduction of regulations that restrict or discourage companies from outsourcing could result in a decrease in the demand for our services, which in turn could materially harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The current global recession has negatively affected the business of many of our clients and has in some cases resulted in lower volumes of work for us. In the event that the global recession continues or worsens, this may in turn continue to have a negative impact on our business due to lower volumes or pricing pressures. Other developments may also lead to a decline in the demand for our services in these industries. For example, the industries we primarily serve, particularly the communications industry, have experienced a significant level of consolidation in recent years. Consolidation in any of these industries or acquisitions, particularly involving our clients, may decrease the potential number of buyers of our services. Furthermore, many of our existing and new clients have begun or plan to consolidate or reduce the number of service providers that they use for various services in various geographies. To the extent that we are not successful in becoming the recipient of the consolidation of services by these clients our business and revenues will suffer. Any significant reduction in, or the elimination of, the use of the services we provide within any of these industries would reduce our revenue and cause our profitability to decline. Our clients may experience rapid changes in their prospects, substantial price competition and pressure on their results of operations. This may result in increasing pressure on us from clients in these key industries to lower our prices, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully execute on any of our identified business opportunities or other business opportunities that we determine to pursue. In order to pursue business opportunities, we will need to continue to build our infrastructure, our client initiatives and operational capabilities. Our ability to do any of these successfully could be affected by one or more of the following factors: • the ability of our technology and hardware, suppliers and service providers to perform as we expect; • our ability to execute our strategy and continue to operate a large, more diverse business efficiently on a global basis; • our ability to effectively manage our third party relationships; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; • our ability to effectively manage our employee costs and other expenses; • our ability to retain and grow our clients and the current portfolio of business with each client; • technology and application failures and outages, security breaches or interruption of service, which could adversely affect our reputation and our relations with our clients; • our ability to accurately predict and respond to the rapid technological changes in our industry and the evolving service and pricing demands of the markets we serve; and • our ability to raise additional capital to fund our growth. Our failure to adequately address the above factors would have a significant impact on our ability to implement our business plan and our ability to pursue other opportunities that arise, which might negatively affect our business. Our business may be impacted by the performance of our clients. The current economic environment and global recession is having a negative impact on the revenue and sales unit volumes of many of our clients. Our revenue and call volume is often highly correlated with units sold, renewals from our clients’ customers or end users, and revenue of our clients. In addition, many of our clients are seeking to consolidate their current group of service providers to a smaller more manageable group that is able to provide integrated service offerings on a global basis. In some cases we do not currently offer or have service locations in those geographic locations where our clients are seeking services. Our ability to sustain growth and profitability in the current environment is very dependent upon our ability to maintain and/or gain a greater share of business within our current clients, and to attract new clients. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Moreover, we are exposed to additional risks related to our clients’ ability to pay and the resulting uncollectability of our accounts receivables. The economic slowdown, coupled with tightened credit availability, could adversely affect our clients’ liquidity and cause them to delay or reduce their payments to us. Such delays or reductions or the non-payment by our clients of amounts owed to us may require us to incur a bad debt expense. To the extent that one of our major clients should file for bankruptcy protection or otherwise fail, it could have a material effect on our future business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In the event that some of our service centers do not receive sufficient call volume in the future we may be required to close them and relocate business in other centers. This would require substantial employee severance, lease termination costs and other re-organization costs. We may not be able to achieve incremental revenue growth or profitability. Our strategy calls for us to achieve incremental revenue growth and profitability through initiatives, such as opening new or expanding our existing internationally located service locations in places like China, Egypt, Japan, and South America. Other initiatives we may pursue include, the addition or expansion of services, such 16 Table of Contents as sales services, warranty services, credit and collection services, data management and hosting, and language translation and interpretation services. Our strategy also includes the introduction of front-end technology-driven service solutions for fee-based services, self-help, and other technology driven solutions. Additionally, our strategy includes operational improvements in areas such as employee attrition, site capacity utilization, centralization of certain administrative services, productivity rates, use of technology and other operating metrics. We are also in process of consolidating and rationalizing certain of our service facilities and legacy administrative offices to improve our profitability. However, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties or delays in implementing these initiatives, and any such difficulties or delays would adversely affect our future operating results and financial performance. We have, on a consolidated basis, a substantial amount of debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing or pursue our growth strategy. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $223.8 million of indebtedness (including capital leases) and up to an additional $84.5 million of borrowings available under the ABL Credit Facility, before taking into account outstanding letters of credit, subject to borrowing base limitations and other specified terms and conditions. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences and significant adverse effects on our business, including the following: • we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • our high level of indebtedness could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; • our high level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and • our ability to fund a change of control offer may be limited. The instruments governing our ABL Credit Facility contain, and the instruments governing any indebtedness we may incur in the future may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a portion of our outstanding indebtedness. Payments on our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to meet our cash requirements and service our debt is impacted by many factors that are outside of our control. We expect to obtain the funds to pay our expenses and to pay the amounts due under the Notes primarily from our operations and borrowings under our ABL Credit Facility. Our ability to meet our expenses and make these payments thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future and our currently anticipated growth in revenue and cash flow may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness, including the Notes, or to fund other liquidity needs. Our ability to borrow amounts under our ABL Credit Facility will be subject to borrowing base limitations and other specified terms and conditions, and the ability of certain of our foreign subsidiaries to 17 Table of Contents borrow amounts under our ABL Credit Facility in the future is also subject, among other conditions, to our provision of security interests in certain assets of those foreign subsidiaries, which we did not provide upon the closing of the ABL Credit Facility and we may not be able to provide in the future. If we do not have sufficient cash resources in the future, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We might not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow or to achieve any of these alternatives could materially adversely affect the value of the notes and our ability to pay the amounts due under the notes. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness that could further exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing the Notes and the loan agreement governing our ABL Credit Facility contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and we could incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks described above under “We have, on a consolidated basis, a substantial amount of debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing or pursue our growth strategy” and “Payments on our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to meet our cash requirements and service our debt is impacted by many factors that are outside of our control” would intensify. Our business may not develop in ways that we currently anticipate due to negative public reaction to outsourcing and recently proposed legislation. We have based our growth strategy on certain assumptions regarding our industry, services and future demand in the market for our services. However, the trend to outsource business processes may not continue and could reverse. Outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the United States and elsewhere. For example, several organizations in the United States have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in the United States. Public figures, such as President Obama, have supported legislation that they contend will generate new jobs in the United States, including limiting income tax credits for companies that offshore American jobs. This may also have a significant effect on government regulated companies or financial institutions or other businesses that have recently received financial aid from the U.S. Federal government. There has been recent publicity about some negative experiences that organizations have had with outsourcing, such as theft and misappropriation of sensitive client data. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to off-shore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an off-shore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards off-shore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate solely out of facilities located in the United States or Canada. A variety of U.S. federal and state legislation has been proposed that, if enacted, could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing services outside the United States. For example, legislation has been proposed that would require offshore providers of services requiring direct interaction with clients’ customers to identify to clients’ customers where the offshore provider is located. Because most of our clients are U.S. companies located in the United States, any expansion of existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is possible that legislation could be adopted that would restrict U.S. private sector companies that have federal or state government contracts from outsourcing their services to off-shore service providers. This would also affect our ability to attract or retain clients that have these contracts. 18 Table of Contents We may be unable to cost-effectively attract and retain qualified personnel, which could materially increase our costs. Our business is dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key executives, including our, founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. R. Scott Murray, and also recruit, hire, train and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, including individuals with significant experience in the industries that we have targeted. The CRM and BPO service industry is labor intensive and is normally characterized by high monthly employee turnover. Any increase in our employee turnover rate would increase our recruiting and training costs, decrease our operating effectiveness and productivity and delay or deter us from taking on additional business resulting in lower financial performance. Also, the introduction of significant new clients or the implementation of new large-scale programs may require us to recruit, hire and train personnel at an accelerated rate. In addition, some of our facilities are located in geographic areas with relatively low unemployment rates, thus potentially making it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to hire, train and retain sufficient qualified personnel to adequately staff our business. We may not be able to predict our future tax liabilities. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation or if tax contingencies are resolved adversely, our results of operations and financial performance could be adversely affected. Due to the international nature of our operations, we are subject to the complex and varying tax laws and rules of several foreign jurisdictions. We may not be able to predict the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject due to some of these complexities if our positions are challenged by local tax authorities. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of challenges to our tax filing positions or due to legislative or regulatory changes could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to ongoing tax audits, including issues related to transfer pricing, in the United States and other jurisdictions. We have material tax-related contingent liabilities that are difficult to predict or quantify. While we believe that our current tax provisions are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot be assured that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued or that additional exposures will not be identified in the future or that additional tax reserves will not be provided for any such exposures. Our financial results may be impacted by significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A substantial amount of our operating costs is incurred in foreign currencies. In many cases, we bill our clients in U.S. dollar, Canadian dollar, Euro and U.K. pound sterling denominated amounts and incur costs in the host country in local currency. In recent periods, the U.S. dollar has dropped in value relative to other currencies and therefore our cost of providing services outside the United States has increased accordingly when measured in U.S. dollars. Any continued significant fluctuations in the currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, Canadian dollar, Euro and U.K. pounds sterling and the currencies of countries in which we operate may affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A substantial portion of our costs are incurred and paid in Philippine pesos. Therefore, we are exposed to the risk of an increase in the value of the Philippine peso relative to the U.S. dollar, which would increase the value of those expenses when measured in U.S. dollars. Although we engage in hedging relating to the Canadian dollar, the Indian rupee and the Philippine peso, our hedging strategy may not sufficiently protect us from further strengthening of these currencies against the U.S. dollar. As a result, our expenses could increase and harm our operating results. In the converse, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar, the Indian rupee or the Philippine peso, our hedging strategy could reduce the potential benefits we would otherwise expect from a strengthening U.S. dollar. We are also doing business in Latin America but do not yet hedge currencies from these countries. 19 Table of Contents Our international operations and sales subject us to additional risks, including risks associated with unexpected events. We conduct business in various countries outside of the United States, including Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Italy, Ireland, Spain, Sweden, France, Germany, Poland, Denmark, Bulgaria, India, the Philippines, El Salvador, Egypt, Tunisia, South Africa, Nicaragua, the Dominican Republic and Costa Rica. A key component of our growth strategy is our continued international expansion, especially in new markets, such as China, Eastern Europe, Japan, and South America. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully market, sell and deliver our services in these markets, or that we will be able to successfully expand international operations. The global reach of our business could cause us to be subject to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing events and circumstances. The following factors, among others, could adversely affect our business and earnings: • failure to properly comply with foreign laws and regulations applicable to our foreign activities including, without limitation, employment law requirements; • compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting regulations in the countries where we operate now and in the future, including employment laws, intellectual property requirements, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws; • difficulties in managing foreign operations and attracting and retaining appropriate levels of senior management and staffing; • longer cash collection cycles; • seasonal reductions in business activities, particularly throughout Europe; • proper compliance with local tax laws which can be complex and may result in unintended adverse tax consequences; • anti-American sentiment due to American policies that may be unpopular in certain countries; • difficulties in enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems; • fluctuations in exchange rates that may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of services we provide in foreign markets, where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency and revenues are earned in U.S. dollars or other currency; • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate; • the ability to efficiently repatriate cash to the United States and transfer cash between foreign jurisdictions; • changes in transfer pricing policies for income tax purposes in countries where we operate; • restrictions on downsizing operations and personnel in Europe and other jurisdictions (i.e. regulatory or works council restrictions) and expenses and delays associated with any such activities; and • changes to or elimination of the international tax holiday for our subsidiaries in India or the Philippines. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our global operations and reduce our global sales, adversely affecting our business and future financial performance. 20 Table of Contents Countries where we do business have experienced political and economic instability and periodically experience civil unrest and terrorism, which could disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. Countries where we do business, and in particular the Philippines, have experienced significant inflation, currency declines and shortages of foreign exchange. We are exposed to the risk of rental and other cost increases due to inflation in the Philippines, which has historically been at a much higher rate than in the United States. Certain countries where we do business, such as the Philippines, India, Egypt and certain Latin American countries, also periodically experience civil unrest, terrorism and political turmoil and U.S. companies in particular may experience greater risk. In addition, we expect to enter into new markets in places such as China, Japan, South America and Eastern Europe, which may have similar risks. These conditions could disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. Current tax holidays in the Philippines will expire within the next several years. We currently benefit from income tax holiday incentives in the Philippines pursuant to the registrations with the Philippine Economic Zone Authority, or PEZA, of our various projects and operations. Under such PEZA registrations, the income tax holiday of our various PEZA-registered projects in the Philippines expire at staggered dates through 2012. The expiration of these tax holidays will increase our effective income tax rate. Our revenues and costs are subject to quarterly variations that may adversely affect quarterly financial results. We have experienced, and in the future could experience, quarterly variations in revenues as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: • the timing of new client contracts; • the timing of new service offerings or modifications in client strategies; • our ability to attract and retain and increase sales to existing customers; • the timing of acquisitions of businesses and products by us and our competitors; • our ability to effectively build and start-up new solution centers; • product and price competition; • our ability to build an integrated service offering on a common technology platform; • changes in our operating expenses; • software defects or other product quality problems; • the ability to implement new technologies on a timely basis; • the expiration or termination of existing contracts; • the timing of increased expenses incurred to obtain and support new business; • currency fluctuations; and • changes in our revenue mix among our various service offerings. In addition, our planned staffing levels, investments and other operating expenditures are based on revenue forecasts provided by our clients. If actual revenues are below these forecasts or our own expectations in any given quarter, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would likely be materially adversely affected for that quarter and thereafter. In addition, to the extent that we enter into mergers and acquisitions or new business ventures in the future, our quarterly or future results may be impacted. 21 Table of Contents Our financial results may be adversely affected by increases in labor-related costs. Because a significant portion of our operating costs relate to labor costs, an increase in U.S. or foreign wages, costs of employee benefits or taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, over the past several years, healthcare costs have increased at a rate much greater than that of general cost or price indices. Increases in our pricing may not fully compensate us for increases in labor and other costs incurred in providing services. Some of our facilities are located in jurisdictions, such as France, Italy and Germany, where it is difficult or expensive to temporarily or permanently lay off hourly workers due to both local laws and practices within these jurisdictions. Such laws will make it more expensive for us to respond to adverse economic conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our pricing or reduce our workforce to fully compensate for the increases in the costs to provide services. We may need to increase the levels of employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive in attracting and retaining the quality and number of employees that our business requires. Wage costs in India and other offshore locations have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the North America and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of Stream’s competitive advantages. However, because of rapid economic growth in India, increased demand for CRM and BPO services from India and increased competition for skilled employees in offshore low cost locations like India and the Philippines, wages for comparably skilled employees in offshore low cost locations like India and the Philippines are increasing at a faster rate than in North America and Europe, which may reduce this competitive advantage. In addition, although eTelecare has not historically experienced significant wage inflation with its Philippine employees, we are faced with increasing competition in the Philippines for service professionals and technicians who generate revenue for us, and we expect this competition will continue to increase as additional outsourcing companies enter the market and expand their operations. In particular, there may be limited availability of qualified middle and upper management candidates. We have benefited from a suitable supply of college graduates in the Philippines. If this favorable supply changes due to increased competition, it could affect the availability and the cost of service professionals and increase our attrition rate. Wages are generally higher for employees performing data analytics services and risk and financial management services than for employees performing CRM and BPO services. As the scale of our data analytics services and our risk and financial management services increases, wages as a percentage of revenues will likely increase. Wage increases in the long term may reduce our profit margins. Additionally, because substantially all of our employees based outside the United States are paid in local currency, while our revenues are collected in other currencies (primarily in U.S. dollars, the Euro and U.K. pounds sterling), our employee costs as a percentage of revenues may increase or decrease significantly if the exchange rates between these currencies fluctuate significantly. We have not experienced significant union activity or organized labor activity in the past. There can be no assurance that we will not experience increased union organizing activity in the future. Such organization could increase our cost of labor, limit our ability to modify work schedules and cause work stoppage. Our profitability will be adversely affected if we do not maintain sufficient capacity utilization. Our profitability is influenced significantly by the capacity utilization of our service centers. Because our business consists of inbound contacts from end-users, we have no control of when or how many end user customer contacts are made. Moreover, we have significantly higher utilization during peak (week day) periods than during off-peak (night and weekend) periods and therefore we need to reserve capacity at our service centers to anticipate peak periods. In the future, we may consolidate or close under-performing service centers in order to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. If we close service centers in the future due to insufficient customer demand, we may be required to record restructuring or impairment charges, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain optimal service center capacity utilization. 22 Table of Contents Many of our existing or emerging competitors are better established and have significantly greater resources, which may make it difficult to attract and retain clients and grow revenues. The market in which we compete is highly competitive and fragmented. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future. Our competitors include small firms offering specific applications, divisions of large entities, large independent firms and, most significantly, the in-house operations of clients or potential clients. Because we compete with the in-house operations of existing or potential clients, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected if our existing clients decide to provide CRM and other BPO solutions that currently are outsourced or if potential clients retain or increase their in-house customer service and product support capabilities. In addition, competitive pressures from current or future competitors or in-house operations could cause our services to lose market acceptance or result in significant price erosion, which would have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Some of our clients may in the future seek to consolidate services that we provide, which may in turn reduce the amount of work we perform for them. Some of our existing and future competitors have greater financial, human and other resources, longer operating histories, greater technological expertise, more recognizable brand names and more established relationships than we do in the industries that we currently serve or may serve in the future. Some of our competitors may enter into merger, strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, more established companies in order to increase their ability to address client needs. Increased competition, pricing pressure or loss of market share could reduce our operating margin, which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our financial position and operating results. We may pursue acquisitions of companies or assets in order to enhance our market position and/or expand the types of services that we offer to our clients and may enter geographic markets where we do not currently conduct business. We may also acquire minority interest in companies or enter into joint venture arrangements with other parties, which may include existing clients. We may also pursue certain acquisitions on an unsolicited basis, which may cause management distractions and increased legal costs. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to consummate such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we cannot be sure that they will ultimately strengthen our competitive position, or that our clients, employees or investors will not view them negatively. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our indebtedness, liabilities, exposure to different legal regimes and/or regulations, and expenses and harm our operating results or financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate these acquisitions into our operations and may lose key clients, employees, members of management or not achieve the synergies and other benefits expected from the acquisition or investment. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business depends on uninterrupted service to our clients. A system failure or labor shortage could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose clients. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our service centers, computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems against damage or interruption from fire, power loss, telecommunications interruption or failure, natural disaster, breaches in data and technology security integrity and other similar events in order to provide our clients with reliable services. Additionally, we depend on our employees to perform our services on behalf of our clients. If employees miss work due to labor shortages, natural disasters and other similar events, our ability to provide our clients with reliable services will be hindered. Some of the events that could adversely affect our ability to deliver reliable service include physical damage to 23 Table of Contents our network operations centers; disruptions, power surges or outages to our computer and telecommunications technologies which are beyond our control; sabotage or terrorist attacks and cyber attacks or data theft; software defects; fire or natural disasters such as typhoons, hurricanes, floods and earthquakes; and labor shortages or walk-outs. Technology is a critical foundation in our service delivery. We utilize and deploy internally developed and third party software solutions that is often customized by us across various hardware and software environments. We operate an extensive internal voice and data network that links our global sites together in a multi-hub model that enables the rerouting of call volumes. We also rely on multiple public communication channels for connectivity to our clients. Maintenance of and investment in these foundational components are critical to our success. If the reliability of technology or network operations fall below required service levels, or a systemic fault affects the organization broadly, business from our existing and potential clients may be jeopardized and cause our revenue to decrease. If we experience a temporary or permanent interruption at one or more of our service centers and/or data centers, through casualty, operating malfunction, labor shortage or otherwise, our business could be materially adversely affected and we may be required to pay contractual damages to affected clients or allow some clients to terminate or renegotiate their contracts with us. Although we maintain property, business interruption and general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, there can be no assurance that our existing coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The occurrence of errors could result in a loss of data to us or our clients, which could cause a loss of revenues, failure to achieve product acceptance, increased insurance costs, product returns, legal claims, including product liability claims, against us, delays in payment to us by clients, increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions, diversion of resources, injury to our reputation, or damages to our efforts to build brand awareness, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our market share and, in turn, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to U.S. and foreign jurisdiction laws relating to individually identifiable information, and failure to comply with those laws, whether or not inadvertent, could subject us to legal actions and negatively impact our operations. We process, transmit and store information relating to identifiable individuals, both in our role as a service provider and as an employer. As a result, we are subject to numerous U.S. (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the European Union Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC, governing the protection and processing of individually identifiable information, including social security numbers, financial and health information. Failure to comply with these types of laws may subject us to, among other things, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data could expose us to protracted and costly litigation and penalties and may cause us to lose clients. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations and with our partners and clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize, record and store sensitive or confidential data. As a result, we are subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations designed to protect this information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, 24 Table of Contents we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure or recording of sensitive or confidential client or customer data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have a long selling cycle for our CRM and BPO services that requires significant funds and management resources and a long implementation cycle that requires significant resource commitments. We have a long selling cycle for our CRM and BPO services for new clients, which requires significant investment of capital, resources and time by both our clients and us. Typically, before committing to use our services, potential clients require us to expend substantial time and resources educating them as to the value of our services and assessing the feasibility of integrating our systems and processes with theirs. Our clients then evaluate our services before deciding whether to use them. Therefore, our selling cycle, which generally ranges from six to twelve months, is subject to many risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including our clients’ decision to choose alternatives to our services (such as other providers or in-house offshore resources) and the timing of our clients’ budget cycles and approval processes. In addition, we may not be able to successfully conclude a contract after the selling cycle is complete. Implementing our services involves a significant commitment of resources over an extended period of time from both our clients and us. Our clients may also experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays associated with technology or system implementations, thereby delaying further the implementation process. Our clients and future clients may not be willing or able to invest the time and resources necessary to implement our services, and we may fail to close sales with potential clients to which we have devoted significant time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Once we are engaged by a client, it may take us several months before we start to recognize significant revenues. When we are engaged by a client after the selling process for our CRM and BPO services, it takes from four to six weeks to integrate the client’s systems with ours and up to three months thereafter to ramp up our services and staff levels, including hiring and training qualified service professionals and technicians, to the client’s requirements. Depending on the complexity of the processes being implemented, these time periods may be significantly longer. Implementing processes can be subject to potential delays similar to certain of those affecting the selling cycle. Therefore, we do not recognize significant revenues until after we have completed the implementation phase. If we are unable to adjust our pricing terms or the mix of products and services we provide to meet the changing demands of our CRM and BPO clients and potential CRM and BPO clients, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Industry pricing models are evolving, and we anticipate that clients may increasingly request transaction-based pricing. This pricing model will place additional pressure on the efficiency of our service delivery so that we can maintain reasonable operating margins. If we are unable to adapt our operations to evolving pricing protocols, our results of operations may be adversely affected or we may not be able to offer pricing that is attractive relative to our competitors. In addition, the CRM and BPO services we provide to our clients, and the revenues and income from those services, may decline or vary as the type and quantity of services we provide under those contracts changes over time, including as a result of a shift in the mix of products and services we provide. Furthermore, our clients, 25 Table of Contents some of which have experienced rapid changes in their prospects, substantial price competition and pressures on their profitability, have in the past and may in the future demand price reductions, automate some or all of their processes or change their outsourcing strategy by moving more work in-house or to other providers, any of which could reduce our profitability. Any significant reduction in or the elimination of the use of the services we provide to any of our clients, or any requirement to lower our prices, would harm our business. We depend on third-party technology that, if it should become unavailable, contain defects, or infringe on another party’s intellectual property rights, could result in increased costs or delays in the production and improvement of our products or result in liability claims. We license critical third-party technology that we incorporate into our services on a non-exclusive basis. We customize the third-party software in many cases to our specific needs and content requirements. While we monitor our usage of third-party technology and our compliance with our licenses to use such technology, we may inadvertently violate the terms of our license agreements, which could subject us to liability, including the termination of our rights to use such software or the imposition of additional license fees. If our relations with any of these third-party technology providers become impaired, or if the cost of licensing any of these third-party technologies increases, our gross margin levels could significantly decrease and our business could be harmed. The operation of our business would also be impaired if errors occur in the third-party software that we utilize or the third-party software infringes upon another party’s intellectual property rights. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects or viruses in third-party software because the software is not within our control. If we are unable to correct such errors, our business could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that these third parties will continue to invest the appropriate resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance the capabilities of their software. In addition, although we try to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities arising from third-party infringement claims arising out of, and errors, defects or viruses in, such third-party software, in the license agreements that we enter into with such third-party software providers, such provisions may not effectively protect us against such claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. If we are unable to keep pace with technological changes, our business will be harmed. Our business is highly dependent on our computer and telecommunications equipment, infrastructure and software capabilities. Our failure to maintain the competitiveness of our technological capabilities or to respond effectively to technological changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our continued growth and future profitability will be highly dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to: • expand our existing solutions offerings; • achieve cost efficiencies in our existing service center operations; • introduce new solutions that leverage and respond to changing technological developments; and • remain current with technology advances. There can be no assurance that technologies, applications or services developed by our competitors or vendors will not render our products or services non-competitive or obsolete, that we can successfully develop and market any new services or products, that any such new services or products will be commercially successful or that the integration of automated customer support capabilities will achieve intended cost reductions. In addition, the inability of equipment vendors and service providers to supply equipment and services on a timely basis could harm our operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Defects or errors within our software could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Design defects or software errors may delay software introductions or reduce the satisfaction level of clients and may have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our software is highly complex and may, from time to time, contain design defects or software errors that may be difficult to detect and/or correct. Since both our clients and we use our software to perform critical business functions, design defects, software errors or other potential problems within or outside of our control may arise from the use of our software. It may also result in financial or other damages to our clients, for which we may be held responsible. Although our license agreements with our clients often contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities arising from client problems, these provisions may not effectively protect us against such claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. Claims and liabilities arising from client problems could result in monetary damages to us and could cause damage to our reputation, adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Failure to comply with internal control attestation requirements could lead to loss of public confidence in our financial statements. Any future acquisitions and other material changes in our operations likely will require us to expand and possibly revise our disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over our financial reporting and related corporate governance policies. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and associated regulations relating to effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or our efforts to comply with these laws and regulations differ from the conduct intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities or varying interpretations of the law, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions, the public may lose confidence in our internal controls and the reliability of our financial statements, and our reputation may be harmed. The industries in which we operate are continually evolving. Our services may become obsolete, and we may not be able to develop competitive services on a timely basis or at all. The CRM and BPO service industry is characterized by rapid technological change, competitive pricing, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. The success of our company will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these challenges and to offer competitive services on a timely basis. We face a number of difficulties and uncertainties associated with this reliance on technological development, such as: • competition from service providers using other means to deliver similar or alternative services; • realizing economies of scale on a global basis (including conducting future business in places such as Eastern Europe, China, Japan and South America); • responding successfully to advances in competing technologies and network security in a timely and cost-effective manner; and • existing, proposed or undeveloped technologies that may render our services less profitable or obsolete. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. We plan to expand our business. We anticipate that this expansion will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in infrastructure, service offerings and service center expansion. In addition, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures. Future growth of our company will place a significant strain on managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage growth successfully, our business will be harmed. 27 Table of Contents Government regulation of our industry and the industries we serve may increase our costs and restrict the operation and growth of our business. Both the U.S. Federal and various state governments regulate our business and the outsourced business services industry as a whole. The Federal Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act of 1994 broadly authorizes the FTC to issue regulations restricting certain telemarketing practices and prohibiting misrepresentations in telephone sales. The FTC regulations implementing this Act are commonly referred to as the Telemarketing Sales Rule. Our operations outside the United States are also subject to regulation. In addition to current laws, rules and regulations that regulate our business, bills are frequently introduced in Congress to regulate the use of credit information. We cannot predict whether additional Federal or state legislation that regulates our business will be enacted. Additional Federal or state legislation could limit our activities or increase our cost of doing business, which could cause our operating results to suffer. We could be subject to a variety of regulatory enforcement or private actions for our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with these regulations. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if the effect of government regulation of the industries we serve is to reduce the demand for our services or expose us to potential liability. We may become involved in litigation that may materially adversely affect us. We are currently, and from time to time in the future we may become involved in various legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including patent, software, commercial, product liability, employment, class action, whistleblower and other litigation and claims, and governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, because litigation is inherently unpredictable, there can be no assurance that the results of any of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. An outbreak of a pandemic, flu or other disease, or the threat of a pandemic, flu or other disease, may adversely impact our ability to perform our services or may adversely impact client and consumer demand. We have a large number of employees across the world in many different countries with different levels of healthcare monitoring. Most of these employees work in relatively close proximity to each other in our service centers. A significant or widespread outbreak of a pandemic, such as the flu or other contagious illness, or even a perceived threat of such an outbreak, could cause significant disruptions to our employee base and could adversely impact our ability to provide our services and deliver our products. This could have a significant impact on our business and our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Equity Securities There can be no assurance that NYSE Amex will continue to list our securities on its exchange, and any delisting could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our units, common stock and warrants are listed on NYSE Amex, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on NYSE Amex in the future. If NYSE Amex delists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are unable to list our securities on another exchange, our securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, or “pink sheets.” As a result, we could face significant adverse consequences, including but not limited to the following: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; 28 Table of Contents • a reduced liquidity for our securities; • a decreased ability to obtain new financing or issue new securities on favorable terms in the future; • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and • a decreased ability of our security holders to sell their securities in certain states. The value of our units, common stock and warrants may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of our units, shares and warrants has been highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, our management and financial sponsors hold a large percentage of our outstanding shares, which are subject to certain restrictions on resale, and our relatively low trading volume causes significant price variations to occur. If the market prices of our units, shares and warrants decline significantly, you may be unable to resell your units, shares and warrants at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our units, shares and warrants will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our units, shares and warrants or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our units, shares and warrants include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of comparable companies; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts; • the exercise of participation rights held by certain of our stockholders in connection with the exercise of our warrants; • announcements of technological innovations, new products, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • general economic conditions and trends; • catastrophic events; or • recruitment or departure of key personnel. The control that our financial sponsors have over us and provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law might limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change in control, and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our financial sponsors, Ares Corporate Opportunities Fund II, L.P., NewBridge International Investment Ltd. and EGS Dutchco B.V., collectively own approximately 87% of our common stock and are parties to a stockholders agreement that restricts our ability to undertake certain actions. Therefore, our financial sponsors collectively are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, are able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. The market price of our shares could be adversely affected to the extent that this concentration of ownership and stockholders agreement, as well as provisions of our organizational documents, discourage or impede potential takeover attempts that our other stockholders may favor. Furthermore, our financial sponsors may, in the future, own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. Our financial sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. For example, our organizational documents require advance notice for proposals by stockholders and nominations, place 29 Table of Contents limitations on convening stockholder meetings and authorize the issuance of preferred shares that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt. Moreover, certain provisions of Delaware law may delay or prevent a transaction that could cause a change in our control. Our outstanding warrants have been, and in the future may be, exercised and trigger the exercise of certain participation rights held by our major stockholders, which have increased, and in the future would increase, the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In November 2009, pursuant to an agreement with Ares, we bought 425,000 of our public warrants at a price of $0.15 per warrant for a total of $63,750. In December 2009, we closed our self-tender offer to purchase up to 17,500,000 of our public warrants and accepted for purchase 9,956,689 warrants for a total cost of approximately $4,978,000, excluding fees and expenses related to the tender offer. As of December 31, 2009, 131,402 of our publicly traded warrants have been exercised for a total exercise price of $788,412, leaving 10,008,526 shares subject to outstanding warrants, including 30,223 shares of common stock underlying warrants embedded in our units. To the extent that additional warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in further dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. In addition, the exercise of any of our publicly traded warrants triggers contractual participation rights for Ares, NewBridge and Dutchco, pursuant to which they would have the right to purchase from us 2.4364 additional shares of common stock at $6.00 per share for each of our publicly traded warrants that are exercised, up to a maximum of approximately 24,385,000. In connection with the exercise of 131,402 of our publicly traded warrants, Ayala Corporation exercised its contractual participation rights to purchase an additional 320,146 shares of common stock at $6.00 per share, for a total purchase price of approximately $1,921,000. Sales in the public market of substantial numbers of shares acquired through either the exercise of these participation rights or the exercise of these warrants could adversely affect the market price of our shares. We do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. You should not rely on an investment in our common stock to provide dividend income. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to maintain and expand our existing operations. In addition, we are restricted from paying dividends in certain circumstances under the terms of the indenture governing our Notes and the ABL Credit Facility. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. As a result, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our publicly traded units at any time in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (1) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (2) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (3) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. 30 Table of Contents We have broad discretion in the use of the net proceeds from the exercise of the warrants. We cannot specify with certainty the particular uses of the net proceeds we will receive from the exercise of the warrants. Our management will have broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds. Accordingly, you will have to rely upon the judgment of our management with respect to the use of the proceeds, with only limited information concerning management’s specific intentions. Our management may spend a portion or all of the net proceeds from this offering in ways that our stockholders may not desire or that may not yield a favorable return. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 