Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face a variety of risks that might affect our business, financial condition, operating results or any combination thereof. Although many of the risks and uncertainties discussed below are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict, you should carefully consider the identified risks and uncertainties and other information contained in this Form 10-K in evaluating our business and prospects and before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occur or develop, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The following discussion addresses those risks that management believes are the most 21 Table of Contents significant and that might affect our business, financial condition or operating results, although there are other risks that could arise or might become more significant than anticipated. Risks Relating to Our Revenues and Cash Flow Challenges Relating to Our Ability to Enter into New License Agreements Could Cause Our Revenues and Cash Flow to Decline. We face challenges in entering into new patent license agreements. During discussions with unlicensed companies, significant negotiation issues arise from time to time. For example, manufacturers and sellers of 2G products could be reluctant to enter into a license agreement because such companies might be required to make significant payments for unlicensed past sales. Moreover, a significant part of our TDMA patent portfolio expired in 2006. Also, certain of the inventions we believe will be employed in 3G products and other future technologies are the subject of our patent applications where no patent has been issued yet by the relevant patent reviewing authorities. Certain prospective licensees are unwilling to license patent rights prior to a patent’s issuance. Additionally, in the ordinary course of negotiations, in response to our demand that they enter into a license agreement, manufacturers raise different defenses and arguments, including, but not limited to: (i) claims by third parties challenging the essential nature of our patents; (ii) claims that their products do not infringe our patents or that our patents are invalid or unenforceable; (iii) certain patents should be excluded from the license; (iv) our royalty rates are not fair, reasonable or nondiscriminatory; (v) that their products are already subject to a license; and (vi) the potential impact that any litigation or arbitration in which we are involved might have on such manufacturers. We cannot assure that all prospective licensees will be persuaded during negotiations to enter into a patent license agreement with us, either at all or on terms acceptable to us. Our Revenue and Cash Flow Are Dependent Upon Our Licensees’ Sales and Market Conditions. A significant portion of our licensing revenues are royalty-based and currently dependent on sales by our licensees that are outside our control and that could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, including global and/or country-specific economic conditions, buying patterns of end users, competition for our licensees’ products and any decline in the sale prices our licensees receive for their covered products. In addition, our operating results also could be affected by general economic and other conditions that cause a downturn in the market for the customers of our products or technologies. Our revenue and cash flow also could be affected by (i) the unwillingness of any licensee to satisfy all of their royalty obligations on the terms or within the timeframe we expect or a decline in the financial condition of any licensee or (ii) the failure of sales to meet market forecasts due to global economic conditions, political instability, competitive technologies or otherwise. It is also difficult to predict the timing and amount of licensing revenue associated with past infringement and new licenses and the timing, nature or amount of revenues associated with strategic partnerships. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast and could adversely affect both our quarterly and annual operating results and financial condition. Royalty Rates Could Decrease for Future License Agreements. Certain licensees and others in the wireless industry, individually and collectively, are demanding that royalty rates for patents be lower than historic royalty rates and, in some cases, that the aggregate royalty rates for patents products be capped. There is increasing downward pricing pressure on certain products that we believe implement our patented inventions. Also, a number of companies have made claims as to the essential nature of their patents with respect to products for the cellular market. The increasing pricing pressure, as well as the number of patent holders of 3G and future technologies and the efforts, if successful, by certain industry members and groups to reduce and/or place caps on royalty rates for 3G and future technologies could result in a decrease in the royalty rates we receive for use of our patented inventions, thereby decreasing future anticipated revenue and cash flow. Our Revenues Are Derived Primarily from a Limited Number of Patent Licensees. We earn a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of licensees, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to come from a limited number of licensees for the foreseeable future. In the event one or more of these licensees fail to meet their payment or reporting obligations under their respective license agreements, we lose any of these licensees or our revenues from these licensees decline, our future revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. It Can Be Difficult for Us to Verify Royalty Amounts Owed to Us Under Our Licensing Agreements, and This Might Cause Us to Lose Revenues. The standard terms of our license agreements require our licensees to document the sale of licensed products and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our standard license terms give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete, subject to dispute and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationship with our licensees. From time to time, we audit certain of our licensees to verify independently the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty 22 Table of Contents revenues to which we are entitled under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that these random audits will be effective to that end. Challenges Relating to Our Existing License Agreements Could Cause Our Revenue and Cash Flow to Decline. Revenue and cash flow from existing and potential licensees might be affected by challenges to our interpretation of license agreement provisions and from downward industry pricing pressure on certain products. Such challenges or difficulties could result in requests to renegotiate, rejection or modification of license agreements or the termination, reduction and suspension of payments. Some of our license agreements have fixed terms. We will need to renew license agreements with fixed terms prior to the expiration of the license agreements and, based on various factors, including the technology and business needs and competitive positions of our licensees, we might not be able to renegotiate the license agreements on similar terms, or at all. In order to maintain existing relationships with some of our licensees, we might be forced to renegotiate license agreements on terms that are more favorable to the licensees, which could harm our results of operations. If we fail to renegotiate our license agreements, we would lose existing licensees, and our business could be materially adversely affected. For example, our patent license agreement with LG expires at the end of 2010. If we are unable to renew this agreement either at all or on beneficial terms this would adversely affect our revenue. Challenges in Defending and Enforcing Our Patent Rights Could Cause Our Revenue and Cash Flow to Decline. Major telecommunications equipment manufacturers have challenged, and we expect will continue to challenge the infringement, validity and enforceability of our patents. In some instances, certain of our patent claims could be substantially narrowed or declared invalid, unenforceable, not essential or not infringed. We cannot assure that the validity and enforceability of our patents will be maintained or that any of our key patents will be determined to be applicable to any particular product or Standard. Moreover, third parties could circumvent certain of our patents through design changes. Any significant adverse finding as to the validity, enforceability or scope of our key patents could result in the loss of patent licensing revenue from existing licensees and could substantially impair our ability to secure new patent licensing arrangements. Our Engineering Services Business Could Subject Us to Specific Costs and Risks That We Might Fail to Manage Adequately. We derive a portion of our revenues from engineering services. Any mismanagement of, or negative development in, a number of areas, including, among others, the perceived value of our intellectual property portfolio, our ability to convince customers of the value of our engineering services and our reputation for performance under our service contracts, could cause our revenues from engineering services to decline, damage our reputation and harm our ability to attract future licensees, which would in turn harm our operating results. If we fail to deliver as required under our service contracts, we could lose revenues and become subject to liability for breach of contract. We need to monitor these services adequately in order to ensure that we do not incur significant expenses without generating corresponding revenues. Our failure to monitor these services adequately may harm our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our Business and Operations Would Suffer in the Event of a Natural Disaster or Other Catastrophe. Our business and operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel. Our locations could be subject to natural disasters or other catastrophes. Although we have and maintain disaster recovery plans, such plans have limitations. A natural disaster or other catastrophe could still disable our facilities and/or systems, which could result in a material disruption to our business. In addition, we could incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions. Risks Relating to Our Expenses Due to the Nature of Our Business, We Could Be Involved in a Number of Litigation, Arbitration and Administrative Proceedings to Enforce Our Patent Rights. While some companies seek licenses before they commence manufacturing and/or selling devices that use our patented inventions, most do not. Consequently, we approach companies and seek to establish license agreements for using our inventions. We expend significant effort identifying potential users of our inventions and negotiating license agreements with companies that might be reluctant to take licenses. However, if we believe that a third party is required to take a license to our patents in order to manufacture, sell or use products, we might commence legal or administrative action against the third party if they refuse to enter into a license agreement. In turn, we could face counterclaims that challenge the essential nature of our patents, that our patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed or that our royalty rates are not fair, reasonable or nondiscriminatory. As a result of enforcing our patents, we could be subject to significant legal fees and costs, including the costs and fees of opposing counsel in certain jurisdictions if we are unsuccessful. In addition, litigation, arbitration and administrative proceedings require significant key employee involvement for significant periods of time, which could divert these employees from other business activities. In addition, the cost of defending our intellectual property has been and might continue to be significant. Litigation might be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, enforce patent license and confidentiality agreements or determine the validity, enforceability and scope of proprietary rights of others. In addition, third parties could commence litigation against us seeking to invalidate our patents or to have determined that our patents are not infringed, or are not essential or invalid or unenforceable. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to protect our 23 Table of Contents intellectual property rights could be costly and could require significant amounts of time by key members of executive management and other personnel. We Might Need to Defend Against Claims by Third Parties that We Infringe Their Intellectual Property. A number of third parties publicly have claimed that they own patents essential to various wireless Standards. Certain of our technology solutions are designed to comply with these Standards. If any of our technology solutions are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, we could be required to redesign the technology solutions, take a license from the third party, pay damages to the third party or indemnify a customer or supplier for its damages or other losses. If we are not able to negotiate a license and/or if we cannot economically redesign the technology solutions, we could be prohibited from marketing the technology solutions. In this case, our prospects for realizing future revenue could be adversely affected. If we are required to obtain licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more patent holders, this could have an adverse effect on the commercial implementation and profitability of our wireless technology solutions. In addition, the associated costs to defend such claims could be significant and could divert the attention of key executive management and other personnel. Risks Related to Our Business Strategy, Markets and Competition We Depend on Key Senior Management, Engineering and Licensing Resources. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our directors, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel with specialized licensing, engineering and other skills. The market for such specialized talent in our industry is extremely competitive. In particular, competition exists for qualified individuals with expertise in licensing and with significant engineering experience in cellular and air interface technologies. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel could be affected by any adverse decisions in any litigation or arbitration and by our ability to offer competitive cash and equity compensation and work environment conditions. The failure to attract and retain such persons with relevant and appropriate experience could interfere with our ability to enter into new license agreements and undertake additional technology and product development efforts, as well as our ability to meet our strategic objectives. We Face Risks from Doing Business in Global Markets. A significant portion of our business opportunities exist in a number of international markets. Accordingly, we could be subject to the effects of a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including, but not limited to: difficulty in protecting our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; enforcing contractual commitments in foreign jurisdictions or against foreign corporations; government regulations, tariffs and other applicable trade barriers; currency control regulations and variability in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currency; social, economic and political instability; natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; potentially adverse tax consequences; and general delays in remittance of and difficulties collecting non-U.S. payments. In addition, we also are subject to risks specific to the individual countries in which we, our customers and our licensees do business. Our Industry Is Subject to Rapid Technological Change, Uncertainty and Shifting Market Opportunities. Our market success depends, in part, on our ability to define and keep pace with changes in industry Standards, technological developments and varying customer requirements. Changes in industry Standards and needs could adversely affect the development of, and demand for, our technology, rendering our technology currently under development obsolete and unmarketable. The patents and applications comprising our portfolio have fixed terms, and, if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to these changes through the development or acquisition of new patentable inventions, patents or other technology, we could miss a critical market opportunity, reducing or eliminating our ability to capitalize on our patents, technology solutions or both. Our Technologies Might Not Be Adopted By the Market or Widely Deployed. We invest significant engineering resources in the development of advanced wireless technology and related solutions. These investments might not be recoverable or might not result in meaningful revenue if products based on the technologies in which we invest are not widely 24 Table of Contents deployed. Competing digital wireless technologies could reduce the opportunities for deployment of technologies we develop. If the technologies in which we invest are not adopted in the mainstream markets or in time periods we expect, or if we are unable to secure partner support for our technologies, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The Markets for Our Technology Solutions Might Fail to Materialize in the Manner We Expect. We are positioning our current development projects for the evolving advanced digital wireless markets. Certain of these markets might continue to develop at a slower rate or pace than we expect and might be of a smaller size than we expect. In addition, there could be fewer applications for our technology and products than we expect. The development of advanced wireless markets also could be affected by general economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, pricing of advanced wireless infrastructure and mobile devices, rate of growth in telecommunications services and the availability of capital for, and the high cost of, radio frequency licenses and infrastructure improvements. Failure of the markets for our technologies and/or our products to materialize to the extent or at the rate we expect could reduce our opportunities for sales and licensing and could materially adversely affect our long-term business, financial condition and operating results. The High Amount of Capital Required to Obtain Radio Frequency Licenses, Deploy and Expand Wireless Networks and Obtain New Subscribers Could Slow the Growth of the Wireless Communications Industry and Adversely Affect Our Business. Our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. In order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the United States and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. Industry growth might be affected by the amount of capital required to obtain licenses to use new frequencies, deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services, expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services and obtain new subscribers. The significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions might slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand advanced wireless networks. Our growth could be adversely affected if this occurs. Consolidation in the Wireless Communications Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The wireless communications industry has experienced consolidation of participants and sales of participants or their businesses, and these trends might continue. Any concentration or sale within the wireless industry might reduce the number of licensing opportunities or, in some instances, result in the loss or elimination of existing royalty obligations. Further, if wireless carriers consolidate with companies that utilize technologies competitive with our technologies, we could lose market opportunities. Market Projections and Data Are Forward-Looking in Nature. Our strategy is based on our own projections and on analyst, industry observer and expert projections, which are forward-looking in nature and are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The validity of their and our assumptions, the timing and scope of the 3G and future markets, economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, pricing of products, growth in wireless telecommunications services that would be delivered on 3G devices and availability of capital for infrastructure improvements could affect these predictions. The inaccuracy of any of these projections could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, market data upon which we rely is based on third party reports that might be inaccurate. We Face Substantial Competition from Companies with Greater Resources. Competition in the wireless telecommunications industry is intense. We face competition from companies developing other and similar technologies, including existing companies with in-house development teams and new competitors to the market. Many current and potential competitors might have advantages over us, including: (i) existing royalty-free cross-licenses to competing and emerging technologies; (ii) longer operating histories and presence in key markets; (iii) greater name recognition; (iv) access to larger customer bases; (v) economies of scale and cost structure advantages; and (vi) greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources. In particular, our more limited resources and capabilities might adversely affect our competitive position if the market were to move toward the provision of an existing complete technology platform solution that larger equipment manufacturers have the ability to provide. Our Technology and Product Development Activities Might Experience Delays. We might experience technical, financial, resource or other difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies and products. Delays might have adverse financial effects and might allow competitors with comparable technology and/or product offerings to gain a commercial advantage over us. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have adequate staffing or that our development efforts will ultimately be successful. Moreover, our technologies have not been fully tested in commercial use, and it is possible that they might not perform as expected. In addition, we might experience adverse effects due to potential delays or denials in obtaining export licenses for the transfer of certain of our technologies, which might be deemed controlled technology under U.S. export control laws, to certain countries. In such cases, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected, and our ability to secure new customers and other business opportunities could be diminished. 25 Table of Contents We Rely on Relationships with Third Parties to Develop and Deploy Technology Solutions. Successful exploitation of our technology solutions is partially dependent on the establishment and success of relationships with equipment producers and other industry participants. Delays or failure to enter into licensing or other relationships to facilitate technology development efforts or delays or failure to enter into technology licensing agreements to secure integration of additional functionality could impair our ability to introduce into the market portions of our technology and resulting products, cause us to miss critical market windows or impair our ability to remain competitive. We Might Engage in Acquisitions or Strategic Transactions or Make Investments That Could Result in Significant Changes or Management Disruption and Fail to Enhance Shareholder Value. We continue to evaluate and might acquire businesses, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly traded and private companies and corporate bonds/notes. Most strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. Acquisitions or strategic investments might not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. In addition, other investments might not generate financial returns or might result in losses due to market volatility, the general level of interest rates and inflation expectations. We could make strategic investments in early-stage companies, which require us to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of those companies. Our share of any such losses would adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently might result in significant challenges, and we might be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of integrating companies include, among others: • retaining key employees; • maintenance of important relationships; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business matters; • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • consolidating research and development operations; and • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. We cannot assure you that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the acquisition. We might not derive any commercial value from the acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we might be subject to liabilities that are not covered by the indemnification protection we might obtain. Other Risks The Outcome of Potential Domestic Patent Legislation, USPTO Rule Changes, International Patent Rule Changes and Third Party Legal Proceedings Might Affect Our Patent Prosecution, Licensing and Enforcement Strategies. Changes to certain U.S. and international patent laws and regulations might occur in the future, some or all of which might affect our patent costs, the scope of future patent coverage we secure and remedies we might be awarded in patent litigation, and might require us to reevaluate and modify our patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement strategies. In addition, the potential effect of rulings in legal proceedings among third parties might affect our patent prosecution, licensing, and enforcement efforts. We continue to monitor and evaluate our prosecution, licensing and enforcement strategies with regard to these developments. The Price of Our Common Stock Could Continue to be Volatile. Historically, we have had large fluctuations in the price of our common stock, and such fluctuations could continue. From January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2009, our common stock has traded as low as $13.81 per share and as high as $36.91 per share. Factors that might contribute to fluctuations in our stock price include, but are not limited to: general stock market conditions; general market conditions for the wireless communications industry; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; investor perceptions as to the likelihood of achievement of near-term goals; changes in market share of significant licensees; announcements concerning litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings in which we are involved; announcements concerning licensing and product matters; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions or divestitures; and our operating results. 26 Table of Contents Approved Stock Repurchase Programs Might Not Result in a Positive Return of Capital to Stockholders and Might Expose Us to Counterparty Risk. Our approved stock repurchases might not return value to stockholders because the market price of the stock might decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Stock repurchase programs are intended to deliver stockholder value over the long term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the program’s effectiveness. Changes to Our Tax Assets or Liabilities Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Consolidated Financial Condition or Results of Operations. The calculation of tax assets and liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. We are subject to examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing jurisdictions on various tax matters, including challenges to various positions we assert in our filings and foreign tax liability and withholding. With our January 1, 2007 adoption of the guidance for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, certain tax contingencies are recognized when they are determined to be more likely than not to occur. Although we believe we have adequately recorded tax assets and accrued for tax contingencies that meet this criterion, we may not fully recover our tax assets or might be required to pay taxes in excess of the amounts we have accrued. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were certain tax contingencies that did not meet the applicable criteria to record an accrual. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Currency Fluctuations Could Negatively Affect Future Product Sales or Royalty Revenues or Increase the U.S. Dollar Cost of Our Activities and International Strategic Investments. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which might change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. We operate and invest globally. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates might negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: • If the effective price of products sold by our customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty revenues. • Assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries might be subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which might affect our reported earnings. Our exposure to foreign currencies might increase as we expand into new markets. • Certain of our operating and investing costs, such as foreign patent prosecution, are based in foreign currencies. If these costs are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, strengthening currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our near-term operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. In addition, continued strengthening of currency values in selected regions over an extended period of time could adversely affect our future operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. Unauthorized Use or Disclosure of Our Confidential Information Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We enter into contractual relationships governing the protection of our confidential and proprietary information with our employees, consultants and prospective and existing customers and strategic partners. If we are unable to detect in a timely manner the unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary or other confidential information or if we are unable to enforce our rights under such agreements, the misappropriation of such information could harm our business. If Wireless Handsets Are Perceived to Pose Health and Safety Risks, Demand for Products of Our Licensees and Customers Could Decrease. Media reports and certain studies have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets might be linked to health concerns, such as brain tumors, other malignancies and genetic damage to blood, and might interfere with electronic medical devices, such as pacemakers, telemetry and delicate medical equipment. Growing concerns over radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, could discourage the use of wireless handsets and cause a decrease in demand for the products of our licensees and customers. In addition, concerns over safety risks posed by the use of wireless handsets while driving and the effect of any resulting legislation could reduce demand for the products of our licensees and customers. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 