ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Proposed Merger Termination of our proposed merger with Grifols could result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock. On February 14, 2011, our shareholders approved our proposed merger transaction with Grifols. This transaction has not yet been consummated and may still be terminated, including for failure to obtain anti-trust clearance. Grifols agreed to provide written notice to the FTC staff at least thirty days prior to closing the transaction and, in any event, not to close the transaction until after 11:59 p.m. on March 20, 2011. There can be no assurance that Grifols will reach resolution with the FTC by March 20, 2011. Under the pending merger agreement, if this transaction is not closed by the current “outside date” of March 6, 2011, then under specified circumstances, either Grifols or we may elect to cause the “outside date” to be extended to a date not later than the expiration of Grifols financing for the transaction, or September 6, 2011, whicheve r is earlier. Any termination of the transaction could result in stockholders who purchased or held the stock in anticipation of receiving the merger consideration deciding to sell their stock. If a sufficient number of such stockholders seek to dispose of their stock in the near term, the increased number of shares for sale could materially depress our stock price. Additionally, our stock price recently may have been impacted by the value of the expected merger consideration. If the merger is terminated, the market may reprice the value of our stock based on other factors. Such a repricing may result in increased volatility in our stock price and a decline in our stock price. Any decline in our stock price resulting from a termination of the merger could also result in lawsuits by stockholders seeking to recover damages allegedly caused by the price decline or actions leading up to the merger termination. Any such lawsuits could seek material amounts in damages and could result in significant demands on management’s time and resources. Our proposed merger with Grifols may adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Our proposed merger with Grifols may result in the loss of key employees, suppliers, and customers. Employees, suppliers or customers who do not support the merger or do not want to work for or with the resulting entity may seek other opportunities as a result of our plans. Key employees may also decide to leave if the merger is subsequently not consummated. Additionally, the demand on management’s time and our resources relating to regulatory approvals and integration planning may interfere with management’s day-to-day oversight of operations. As a result, our operations and financial performance could be adversely affected while we prepare for the merger or in future periods should the merger not occur. Lawsuits have been filed against us and certain of our officers and directors challenging the merger, and any adverse judgment for monetary damages could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s operations after the transaction. Four purported class action lawsuits have been filed by our stockholders challenging the proposed transaction. Two of the lawsuits were filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and have been consolidated under the caption In re Talecris Biotherapeutics Holdings Shareholder Litigation, Consol. C.A. No. 5614-VCL. The other two lawsuits were filed in the Superior Court of the State of North Carolina and are captioned Rubin v. Charpie, et al., No. 10 CV 004507 (North Carolina Superior Court, Durham County), and Kovary v. Talecris Biotherapeutics Holdings Corp., et al., No. 10 CV 011638 (North Carolina Superior Court, Wake County). The lawsuits name as defendants Talecris, the members of the Talecris Board of Directors, Grifols, S.A. and its subsidiary, Grifols Inc., and, in the Delaware consolidated action, Talecris Holdings and Stream Merger Sub, Inc. The two Nor th Carolina actions have been stayed. All of the lawsuits allege that the individual defendants (and, in the consolidated Delaware action, Talecris Holdings) breached their fiduciary duties to our stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction with Grifols, and that Grifols (and, in one of the North Carolina cases, Talecris, and in the Delaware action, Grifols Inc.) aided and abetted those breaches. The Delaware complaint alleges, among other things, that the consideration offered to Talecris stockholders pursuant to the proposed transaction is inadequate; that our board of directors failed to take steps to maximize stockholder value; that our IPO and debt refinancing in 2009 were intended to facilitate a sale of Talecris; that Cerberus and Talecris Holdings arranged the proposed merger for the benefit of Cerberus, without regard to the interests of other stockholders; that the voting agreements impermissibly lock up the transaction; and that the merger agreement contains terms, including a termination fee, that favor Grifols and deter alternative bids. The Delaware complaint further alleges that the preliminary Form F-4 filed on August 10, 2010 contains material misstatements and/or omissions, including with respect to the availability of appraisal rights in the merger; the purpose and effects of the Virginia reincorporation merger; the antitrust risks of the proposed transaction; the financial advisors’ analyses regarding the Grifols’ non-voting stock to be issued in connection with the transaction; and the fees to be paid to Morgan Stanley by us 18 Table of Contents and Grifols in connection with the proposed transaction. The Delaware complaint also alleges that our stockholders are entitled to appraisal rights in connection with the transaction pursuant to Section 262 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and that the transaction violates the Delaware General Corporation Law by failing to provide such rights. The Delaware action seeks equitable and injunctive relief, including a determination that the stockholders have appraisal rights in connection with the merger, and damages. On October 29, 2010, the parties to the Delaware litigation entered into a Memorandum of Understanding, or MOU, reflecting an agreement in principle to settle that litigation. The MOU provides, among other things, for the provision of appraisal rights in accordance with DGCL 262 in connection with the transaction as described at pages 135-137 of the MOU; for an increase in t he merger consideration by an additional 500,000 shares of Grifols non-voting shares to holders of our common stock other than our specified affiliated stockholders as described at pages 144-145 of the MOU; and for certain additional disclosures provided herein. The MOU also provides for a dismissal of the action with prejudice and a release of claims. On January 21, 2011, the parties executed a formal Stipulation of Settlement documenting the agreement set forth in the MOU, and on January 25, 2011, the Delaware court entered an order preliminarily approving the settlement. The settlement remains subject, among other things, to notice to the class, final court approval and consummation of the transaction. One of the conditions to the completion of the transaction is that no temporary restraining order, or preliminary or permanent injunction, or other judgment or order issued by a court or other governmental entity that prohibits or prevents the completion of the Talecris-Grifols merger shall be in effect. A preliminary injunction could delay or jeopardize the completion of the transaction, and an adverse judgment granting permanent injunctive relief could indefinitely enjoin completion of the transaction. An adverse judgment for monetary damages could have a material adverse effect on the operations of the combined company after the transaction. Our Merger Agreement with Grifols may prevent us from consummating desirable business combinations. As long as our merger agreement with Grifols is in place, we are prohibited from doing any material acquisition or business combinations without the consent Grifols. This may cause us to lose opportunities that would otherwise benefit our business. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry We could be adversely affected by changes in the legal requirements for the market for medical care or healthcare coverage in the United States resulting from the implementation of 2010 healthcare reform legislation, regulatory rule making, or the enactment of additional legislation under consideration. Substantial changes are being made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the U.S., including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. Approximately 47 million Americans currently lack health insurance of any kind. While a provision in the health care reform legislation requiring those without insurance to pay a penalty was recently declared unconstitutional by two federal district courts, other federal district courts have upheld this provision, and other litigation relating to the legislation is pending. Provisions of the legislation that could increase coverage have not been affected. Extending coverage to such a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail mod ifications to the existing system of private payors and government programs (Medicare, Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program), creation of state-sponsored healthcare insurance exchanges, as well as other changes. Restructuring the coverage of medical care in the U.S. could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs and biopharmaceuticals, such as those produced and marketed by us. If reimbursement for these products is substantially reduced in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased (discussed in more detail below), our business could be materially impacted. Extending medical benefits to those who currently lack coverage will likely result in substantial cost to the federal government, which may force significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system. Much of the funding for expanded healthcare coverage may be sought through cost savings. While some of these savings may come from realizing greater efficiencies in delivering care, improving the effectiveness of preventive care and enhancing the overall quality of care, much of the cost savings may come from reducing the cost of care. Cost of care could be reduced by reducing the level of reimbursement for medical services or products (including those biopharmaceutical products produced and marketed by us), or by restricting coverage (and, thereby, utilization) of medical services or products. In either case, a reduction in the utilization of, or reimbursement for, our products could have a materiall y adverse impact on our financial performance. 19 Table of Contents All of the changes discussed above, and others passed in this legislation, are subject to rule-making and implementation timelines that extend for several years. This uncertainty limits our ability to forecast changes that may occur in the future and to manage our business accordingly. In addition, beginning in 2012, the new law may require us to issue Internal Revenue Service Form 1099 to plasma donors whose remuneration equals or exceeds six hundred dollars annually. The cost of implementing this requirement, as well as its potential impact on plasma donations, is unknown at this time. We could be adversely affected by other provisions of recently passed United States healthcare reform legislation. In the United States, our products are reimbursed or purchased under several government programs, including, Medicaid, Medicare Parts B and D, the 340B/PHS program, and pursuant to contracts with the Department of Veterans Affairs. In order for a drug manufacturer’s products to be reimbursed by federal funding under Medicaid, the manufacturer must enter into a Medicaid drug rebate agreement with the Secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and pay certain rebates to the states based on utilization data provided by each state to the manufacturer and to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, which is referred to as CMS, and pricing data provided by the manufacturer to the federal government. The states have been required to share this savings with the federal government. The rebate amount for most branded drugs was previously equal to a minimum of 15.1% of the Average Manufacturer Price, which is referred to as AMP, or AMP less Best Price, which is referred to as AMP less BP, whichever is greater. The recently enacted healthcare reform legislation generally increases the size of the Medicaid rebates paid by drug manufacturers for single source and innovator multiple source (brand name) drugs from a minimum of 15.1% to 23.1% of the AMP, subject to certain exceptions, for example, for certain clotting factors the increase is limited to a minimum of 17.1% of the AMP. For non-innovator multiple source (generic) drugs, the rebate percentage is increased from a minimum of 11% of AMP to 13% of AMP. The legislation also extends the rebate obligation to prescription drugs covered by Medicaid managed care organizations. The increase in required rebates, which became effective January 1, 2010, may adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, many states have implemented special Medicaid rebate programs, approved by CMS. These programs often involve drug manufacturers paying supplemental rebates to the states pursuant to a supplemental rebate agreement between the drug manufacturer and the state. The supplemental rebates are typically a condition to the manufacturer obtaining “preferred status” for its drugs on the state’s Medicaid drug formularies and avoiding otherwise mandatory prior authorization by Medicaid officials as a condition to any Medicaid recipient using the manufacturer’s drugs. As with standard Medicaid rebates, the states have shared the savings from supplemental rebate programs with the federal government. However, under the recently enacted healthcare reform legislation, the savings realized from the increased rebate amounts, described above (e.g., the 8% increase in the minimum br and name drug rebate), will be retained entirely by the federal government, and not shared with the states. As a result, states with supplemental rebate programs that, for example, have already increased brand name drug rebates by up to 8%, may effectively lose the portion of the savings they previously shared with the federal government. While the increase in rebates from Medicaid managed care organizations may mitigate this issue for the states, this is not certain, and states with supplemental rebate arrangements may seek to increase supplemental rebate requirements in order to address this, thus affecting financial performance. Medicare Part D is a partial, voluntary prescription drug benefit created by the United States federal government primarily for persons 65 years old and over. The Part D drug program is administered through private insurers that contract with CMS. To obtain payments under this program, we are required to negotiate prices with private insurers operating pursuant to federal program guidance. These prices may be lower than might otherwise be obtained. In addition, beginning in 2011, the recently enacted healthcare reform legislation generally requires drug manufacturers to provide 50% savings for brand name drugs and biologics provided to Medicare Part D beneficiaries who are in the “donut hole” (or a gap in Medicare Part D coverage for beneficiaries who have expended certain amounts for drugs). The rebate requirement could adversely affect financial performance, part icularly if contracts with Part D plans cannot be favorably renegotiated. The availability of federal funds to pay for our products under the United States Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we extend discounts under the 340B/PHS program. The 340B/PHS program extends discounts to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of certain low income individuals. The PHS price (or “ceiling price”) cannot exceed the AMP (as reported to CMS under the Medicaid drug rebate program) less the Medicaid unit rebate amount. We have entered into a Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement with the government in which we have agreed to participate in the 340B/PHS program by charging eligible entities no more than the PHS ceiling price for drugs intended for outpatient use. Recently enacted healthcare reform legislation, as amended by a technic al corrections bill signed into law on December 15, 2010, imposes a “must sell” obligation on manufacturers so that they must offer for sale their products to eligible entities at legally-mandated discount prices and expands the number of qualified 340B entities eligible to purchase products for outpatient use. 20 Table of Contents Beyond the changes made to the 340B program in the 2010 health care reform legislation, further reforms to the 340B program remain a possibility, which could have a material negative impact on our sales and margin given the significant price discount for 340B/PHS products as compared to our commercial prices. The recently enacted United States healthcare reform legislation imposes a fee on manufacturers and importers of branded drugs and biologics based on their sales to United States government health programs. The fee will first be imposed for 2011 sales. The aggregate fee imposed on all covered entities is $2.5 billion for 2011, $2.8 billion for 2012, $2.8 billion for 2013, $3 billion for 2014, $3 billion for 2015, $3 billion for 2016, $4 billion for 2017, $4.1 billion for 2018 and $2.8 billion for 2019 and following years. The aggregate fee will be allocated among applicable manufacturers and importers based on their relative sales to government health programs, with the caveat that entities with lower sales will have their sales counted at less than 100% in allocating responsibility for the fee. This new fee will increase our costs. It is not clear that we will be able to pass this increased cost on to our customers. We could be adversely affected if other government or private third-party payors decrease or otherwise limit the amount, price, scope or other eligibility requirements for reimbursement for the purchasers of our products. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience pricing pressures on our current products and pipeline products from initiatives aimed at reducing healthcare costs by government and private third-party payors, the increasing influence of managed care organizations, and regulatory proposals, both in the United States and in foreign markets. Recently enacted healthcare reform in the United States is likely to increase the pressure. This pressure may include the effect of such healthcare reform changes as the introduction of a biosimilar pathway (which will permit companies to obtain FDA approval of generic versions of existing biologic based upon lessor showings of safety and efficacy than is required for the pioneer biologic), the redefinition of the term “single source” product, which plays a key role in determining reimbursements under the Medicare Part B program, and changes to the 340B Public Health Service (PHS) drug pricing program imposing a “must sell” obligation on manufacturers so that they must offer for sale their products to eligible entities at legally-mandated discount prices. Additional legislative changes to current pricing rules are possible. We cannot predict which additional changes, if any, will eventually be adopted, or their impact on us. Certain changes could have a materially adverse impact on our financial performance. In addition, certain pharmaceutical products, such as plasma-derived products, are subject to price controls in countries within the European Union. Price controls are expanding beyond those already imposed by governmental authorities in some of the countries where we operate. The existence of direct and indirect price controls over our products have affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect, our ability to maintain or increase gross margins. In the United States, group purchasing organizations, which are referred to as GPOs, which are entities that act as purchasing intermediaries for hospitals and physicians, constitute the largest marketing channel. The United States GPO channel is dominated by a small number of companies. The GPOs’ large market position and their substantial purchasing volume provide them with significant negotiating power, resulting in price pressures for manufacturers like us. In addition, in the United States, health insurance providers have been setting a cap on the amounts that they will reimburse for certain products. This could have a negative effect on the price that we may be able to charge for our products and could function as an indirect nongovernmental price control. If payors reduce the amount of reimbursement for a product, it may cause groups or individuals dispensing the product to discontinue administration of the product, to administer lower doses, to substitute lower cost products or to seek additional price related concessions. These actions could have a negative effect on our financial results, particularly in cases where we have a product that commands a premium price in the marketplace, or where changes in reimbursement induce a shift in the site of treatment. For example, beginning in 2005, the Medicare drug reimbursement methodology for physician and hospital outpatient payment schedules changed to Average Sales Price (ASP), which is referred to as ASP+6%. This payment was based on a volume-weighted average of all brands under a common billing code. Medicare payments to physicians between the fourth quarter of 2004 and the first quarter of 2005 dropped 14% for both the powder and liquid forms of intravenous immune globulin, which is referred to as IGIV. Medicare payments to hospitals fell 45% for powder IGIV and 30% for liquid IGIV between the fourth quarter of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006. The Medicare reimbursement changes resulted in the shift of a significant number of Medicare IGIV patients to hospitals from physicians’ offices beginning in 2005 as many physicians could no longer recover their costs of obtaining and administering IGIV in their offices and clinics. After 2006, some hospitals reportedly began to refuse providing IGIV to Medicare patients due to reimbursement rates that were below their acquisition costs. While subsequent changes have improved some of these Medicare reimbursement issues, on January 1, 2008, the CMS reduced the reimbursement for separately covered drugs and biologicals, including IGIV, in the hospital outpatient setting from ASP +6% to ASP +5% using 2006 Medicare claims data as a re ference for this reduction. In addition, CMS reduced a hospital add-on payment from $75 to $38 per infusion. Beginning January 1, 2009, CMS further reduced the hospital outpatient reimbursement for separately covered outpatient drugs, including IGIV, to ASP +4%, and eliminated the add-on payment. 21 Table of Contents Physicians frequently prescribe legally available therapies for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries. These unapproved (also known as “off-label”) uses are common across medical specialties, and physicians may believe such off-label uses constitute the preferred treatment or treatment of last resort for many patients in varied circumstances. We believe that a significant portion of our IGIV volume may be used to fill physician prescriptions for indications not approved by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities. If reimbursement for off-label uses of our products, including IGIV, is reduced or eliminated by Medicare or other third-party payors, including those in the United States or the European Union, we could be adversely affec ted. For example, CMS could initiate an administrative procedure known as a National Coverage Determination (NCD) by which the agency determines which uses of a therapeutic product would be reimbursable under Medicare and which uses would not. This determination process can be lengthy, thereby creating a long period during which the future reimbursement for a particular product may be uncertain. High levels of spending on IGIV products, along with increases in IGIV prices, increased IGIV utilization and the high proportion of off-label uses, may increase the risk of regulation of IGIV reimbursement by CMS. On the state level, similar limits could be proposed for therapeutic products covered under Medicaid. Moreover, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 incentivizes states to take innovative steps to control healthcare costs, which could include attempts to negotiate limits to, or reductions of, drug prices. Healthcare reform legislation established and provided significant funding for a Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to coordinate and fund Comparative Effectiveness Research (CER). While the stated intent of CER is to develop information to guide providers to the most efficacious therapies, outcomes of CER could influence the reimbursement or coverage for therapies that are determined to be less cost-effective than others. Should any of our products be determined to be less cost-effective than alternative therapies, the levels of reimbursement for these products, or the willingness to reimburse at all, could be impacted, which could materially impact our financial results. For many payors, including private health insurers and self-insured health plans, as well as Medicare Part D plans and some state Medicaid programs, outpatient pharmaceuticals are often reimbursed based upon a discount calculated off of a pricing benchmark called “Average Wholesale Price,” which is referred to as AWP. AWP is a list price calculated and published by private third-party publishers (such as First DataBank, Thomson Reuters (Red Book) and Wolters Kluwer (Medi-Span)). AWP does not reflect actual transactions in the distribution chain (e.g., the publishers do not base the figure on actual transaction prices, including any prompt pay or other discounts, rebates or price reductions). Often, publishers calculate AWP based upon a standard markup of, for example, 20% over another list price which is reported by drug manufacturers to the publishers. This list price is calle d “Wholesale Acquisition Cost,” which is referred to as WAC. WAC is generally understood in the industry to be the list price drug manufacturers have for their drug wholesaler customers and, like AWP, is not calculated based on actual transaction prices, including any prompt pay or other discounts, rebates or price reductions. We do not publish an AWP for any of our products, reporting WAC for our products instead. We may be at a competitive disadvantage where providers are reimbursed on an AWP basis and competitors’ products are reimbursed based on a higher AWP than the corresponding AWP for our product. The use of AWP and WAC as pricing benchmarks has been subject to legal challenge by both government officials and private citizens, often based on claims that the benchmarks were used in a misleading manner, thus defrauding consumers and third-party payors. It is possible that we, as a reporter of WAC, could be challenged on this basis. Additionally, the settlement of class action litigation against First DataBank and others has resulted in the downward revision of certain reported AWP listings (to a level of 20% over WAC). Issues regarding AWP have contributed to suggestions to eliminate its use as a drug pricing benchmark. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is highly concentrated on our two largest products, Gamunex-C/Gamunex IGIV and Prolastin/Prolastin-C A1PI, and our largest geographic region, the U.S. Any adverse market event with respect to either product or the U.S. region would have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely heavily upon the sales of two of our products: Gamunex-C/Gamunex IGIV and Prolastin/Prolastin-C A1PI. Sales of Gamunex-C/Gamunex IGIV and Prolastin/Prolastin-C A1PI together comprised approximately 76% and 75% of our total net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales of Gamunex IGIV comprised approximately half of our total net revenue in each of these years. If either Gamunex-C/Gamunex IGIV or Prolastin/Prolastin-C A1PI lost significant sales, or were substantially or completely displaced in the market, we would lose a significant and material source of our net revenue. Similarly, if either Gamunex-C/Gamunex IGIV or Prolastin/Prolastin-C A1PI were to become the subject of litigation and/or an adverse governmental ruling requiring us to cease sales of either product, our business would be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents A recent review of two previously conducted studies of the safety and effectiveness of alpha-1 antitrypsin, sold by us as Prolastin, was conducted by the Nordic Cochrane Centre at Rigshospitalet in Copenhagen, Denmark. The review of these older studies concluded that there was no statistically meaningful difference between treatment with intravenous alpha-1 antitrypsin or a placebo. While we believe that the Nordic Cochrane Centre review is flawed, the review could have an adverse affect on sales of Prolastin and the prospects of obtaining future reimbursement approvals in Europe. Additionally, the FDA recently objected to promotional claims in marketing materials for Prolastin as inconsistent with the product’s approved package insert because they were based on data which the FDA considered insufficient to demonstrate the long-term effects derived from chronic augmentation therapy of indi viduals with alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. We rely heavily upon sales from the U.S. region, which comprised approximately 69% and 66% of our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If our U.S. sales were significantly impacted by either material changes to government or private payor reimbursement, by other regulatory developments, or by competition, then our business would be adversely affected. Our manufacturing processes are complex and involve biological intermediates that are susceptible to contamination and variations in yield. Plasma is a raw material that is susceptible to damage and contamination and may contain human pathogens, any of which would render the plasma unsuitable as raw material for further manufacturing. For instance, improper storage of plasma, by us or third-party suppliers, may require us to destroy some of our raw material. If unsuitable plasma is not identified and discarded prior to the release of the plasma to our manufacturing process, it may be necessary to discard intermediate or finished product made from that plasma or to recall any finished product released to the market, resulting in a charge to cost of goods sold. The manufacture of our plasma products is an extremely complex process of fractionation, purification, filling and finishing. Our products can become non-releasable or otherwise fail to meet our stringent specifications through a failure of one or more of our product testing, manufacturing, process controls, and quality assurance processes. We may detect instances in which an unreleased product was produced without adherence to our manufacturing procedures or plasma used in our production process was not collected or stored in a compliant manner consistent with our current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) or other regulations. Such an event of non-compliance would likely result in our determination that the impacted products should not be released and therefore should be destroyed. For example, a malfunction of the Gamunex IGIV chromatography system just prior to our formation transaction in 2005 resulted in the processing of IGIV products containing elevated levels of antibodies for over one month. Our total cost related to this incident, including the costs of product loss, investigation, testing, disposal, and other remedial actions, was approximately $41.6 million. We subsequently recovered from Bayer $10.7 million through our 2005 working capital adjustment and $9.0 million in the first quarter of 2007 through a settlement. As an additional example, our 2010 inventory impairment provisions included $24.6 million of provisions for raw materials and work in process inventories related to a Gamunex-C/Gamunex IGIV production issue. We believe we have identified the cause of the issue and have implemented appropriate remediation steps. Once we have manufactured our plasma-derived products, they must be handled carefully and kept at appropriate temperatures. Our failure, or the failure of third parties that supply, ship or distribute our products, to properly care for our products may require that those products be destroyed. While we expect to write off small amounts of work-in-progress in the ordinary course of business due to the complex nature of plasma, our processes and our products, unanticipated events may lead to write-offs and other costs materially in excess of our expectations. We have in the past had issues with product quality and purity that have caused us to write off the value of the product. Such write-offs and other costs could cause material fluctuations in our profitability. Furthermore, contamination of our products could cause investors, consumers, or other third parties with whom we conduct business to lose confidence in the reliability of our manufacturing procedures, which could adversely affect our sales and profits. In addition, faulty or contaminated products that are unknowingly distributed could result in patient harm, threaten the reputation of our products and expose us to product li ability damages and claims from companies for whom we do contract manufacturing. Additionally, due to the nature of plasma there will be variations in the biologic properties of the plasma we collect or purchase for fractionation that may result in fluctuations in the obtainable yield of desired fractions, even if cGMP is followed. Lower yields may limit production of our plasma-derived products due to capacity constraints. If these batches of plasma with lower yields impact production for extended periods, it may reduce the total capacity of product that we could market and increase our cost of goods sold, thus reducing our profitability. 23 Table of Contents Our business requires substantial capital to operate and grow and to achieve our strategy of realizing increased operating leverage, including the completion of several large capital projects. We intend to undertake several large capital projects to maintain compliance with cGMP and expand capacity. These projects are required for us to expand our production capabilities and achieve our strategy of realizing operating leverage. Capital projects of this magnitude involve technology and project management risks. Technologies that have worked well in a laboratory or in a pilot plant may cost more or not perform as well, or at all, in full scale operations. Projects may run over budget or be delayed. We cannot be certain that these projects will be completed in a timely manner or that we will maintain our compliance with cGMP, and we may need to spend additional amounts to achieve compliance. Additionally, by the time these multi-year projects are completed, market conditions may differ significantly from our assumptions regarding the number of competitors, customer demand, alterna tive therapies, reimbursement and public policy, and as a result capital returns might not be realized. We began a spending program in 2010 to obtain FDA approval for new indications for existing products, to enhance the facilities in which and processes by which we manufacture existing products, to develop new product delivery mechanisms for existing products, to strengthen our plasma collection system and to develop innovative product additions. We anticipate spending substantial sums in capital and operating expense for this program over the next five years. We face a number of obstacles to successfully converting these efforts into profitable products including but not limited to the successful development of a experimental product for use in clinical trials, the design of clinical study protocols acceptable to FDA, the successful outcome of clinical trials, our ability to scale our manufacturing processes to produce commercial quantities or successfully transition technology, FDA approval of our product or process and our ability to successfully market an approved product with our new process or new indication. We expect to operate at or near our fractionation capacity over the next few years depending upon the demand for our products, the availability of source plasma, the impact of yield variability, the potential impact of inventory impairments, and normal production shut-downs, among other factors. We plan to utilize most of our available fractionation capacity in the near term, which may result in increased inventory levels in order to attempt to maintain pace with projected future growth in product demand, although we have not been successful in building excess finished goods inventories to date as a result of the factors previously mentioned. Consequently, any disruption in meeting our fractionation and purification plans would most likely result in lower revenue, gross profit, net income, and operating cash flows as well as lower than planned growth given our fractionation and purification con straints. Our fractionation constraints would likely preclude us from participating in greater than estimated overall market demand or higher demand for Gamunex-C/Gamunex IGIV. In response to our capacity constraints, we have embarked on a substantial capital plan, which we currently estimate to be in the range of $750 million to $800 million on a cumulative basis over the next five years through 2015, excluding capitalized interest. The amount and timing of future capital spending is dependent upon a number of factors, including market conditions, regulatory requirements, and the extent and timing of particular projects, among other things. Given our expectations that we will need fractionation capacity in the near term, our ability to grow our business is dependent upon the timely completion of these facilities and obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals. To finance these various activities, we may need to incur future debt or issue additional equity if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient, and we may not be able to structure our debt obligations on favorable economic terms. A failure to fund these activities may harm our competitive position, quality compliance and financial condition. Our ability to continue manufacturing and distributing our products depends on our and our suppliers’ continued adherence to cGMP regulations. The manufacturing processes for our products are governed by detailed written procedures and federal regulations that set forth cGMP requirements for blood and blood products. Our Quality Operations unit monitors compliance with these procedures and regulations, and the conformance of materials, manufacturing intermediates, and final products to their specifications. Failure to adhere to established procedures or regulations, or to meet a specification, could require that a product or material be rejected and destroyed. There are relatively few opportunities for us to rework, reprocess or salvage nonconforming materials or products. Our adherence to cGMP regulations and the effectiveness of our quality systems are periodically assessed through inspections of our facilities by the FDA in the U.S. and analogous regulatory authorities in other countries. We could be cited for deficiencies in the future. If deficiencies are noted during an inspection, we must take action to correct those deficiencies and to demonstrate to the regulatory authorities that our corrections have been effective. If serious deficiencies are noted or if we are unable to prevent recurrences, we may have to recall product or suspend operations until appropriate measures can be implemented. We are required to report some deviations from procedures to the FDA. Even if we determine that the deviations were not 24 Table of Contents material, the FDA could require us to take similar measures. Since cGMP reflects ever evolving standards, we regularly need to update our manufacturing processes and procedures to comply with cGMP. These changes may cause us to incur costs without improving our profitability or the safety of our products. For example, more sensitive testing assays may be required (if and when they become available) or existing procedures or processes may require revalidation, all of which may be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the manufacturing of a product or launch of a new product. Changes in manufacturing processes, including a change in the location where the product is manufactured or a change of a third-party manufacturer, may require prior FDA review and approval or revalidation of the manufacturing process and procedures in accordance with cGMP. There may be comparable foreign requirements. For example, we have completed the process of transferring the manufacture of our Thrombate III product from Bayer’s Berkeley, California, biologics manufacturing facility to our Clayton manufacturing facility that we are currently validating with regulatory approval expected in 2012. We cannot guarantee that we have a sufficient inventory of intermediates and finished product to meet demand until the new facility is approved and manufacturing can recommence. To validate our manufacturing processes and procedures following completion of upgraded facilities, we must demonstra te that the processes and procedures at the upgraded facilities are comparable to those currently in place at Bayer’s facilities. In order to provide such a comparative analysis, both the Bayer facility processes and the processes that we expect to be implemented at our upgraded facilities must comply with the regulatory standards prevailing at the time that our expected upgrade is completed. If the FDA does not approve the transfer, our ability to market our Thrombate III product will be seriously impaired or eliminated. In addition, regulatory requirements, including cGMP regulations, continually evolve. Failure to adjust our operations to conform to new standards as established and interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities would create a compliance risk that could impair our ability to sustain normal operations. A number of inspections by the FDA and foreign control authorities, including the German Health Authority (GHA), have been conducted or are expected at our plasma collection centers in 2011. Some of these inspections are of licensed centers to assess ongoing compliance with cGMP, while others are of our currently unlicensed centers as a prerequisite to final approval of the centers’ license applications. If the FDA (or other authorities) finds these centers not to be in compliance, our ongoing operations and/or plans to expand plasma collections would be adversely affected. We must continually monitor the performance of our products once approved and marketed for signs that their use may elicit serious and unexpected side effects, which could jeopardize our ability to continue marketing the products. We may also be required to conduct post-approval clinical trials as a condition to licensing a product. As for all pharmaceutical products, the use of our products sometimes produces undesirable side effects or adverse reactions or events (referred to cumulatively as “adverse events”). For the most part, these adverse events are known, are expected to occur at some frequency and are described in the products’ labeling. Known side effects described in the labeling for our products are as follows: the use of Plasbumin 5%, 20%, 25% sometimes produce the following adverse events: allergic manifestations including urticaria, chills, fever and changes in respiration, pulse and blood pressure; the use of Plasmanate sometimes produces the following adverse events: hypotension, flushing, urticaria, back pain, nausea, headache; the use of Koate DVI sometimes produces the following adverse events: allergic type reactions; tingling in the arm, ear and face; blurred vision, headache , nausea, stomach ache and jittery feeling; the use of Gamunex sometimes produces the following adverse events: nausea, vomiting, asthenia, pyrexia, rigors, injection site reaction, allergic/anaphylactic reaction, aseptic meningitis, arthralgia, back pain, dizziness, headache, rash, pruritus, urticaria, hemolysis/hemolytic anemia; the use of Prolastin/Prolastin-C sometimes produces the following adverse events: dyspnea, tachycardia, rash, chest pain, chills, influenza-like symptons, hypersensitivity, hypotension, hypertension; the use of Thrombate III sometimes produces the following adverse events: dizziness, chest tightness, nausea, foul taste in mouth, chills, cramps, shortness of breath, chest pain, filmy vision, light-headedness, gastrointestinal fullness, hives, fever, hematoma formation; the use of HyperHEP B sometimes produces the following adverse events: local pain and tenderness at the injection site, urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions; the use of HyperRAB sometimes produces the following adverse events: soreness at injection site, mild temperature elevation, sensitivity to repeated injections in immunoglobulin-deficient patients, angioneurotic edema, skin rash, nephritic syndrome, anaphylactic shock; the use of HyperTET sometimes produces the following adverse events: soreness at injection site, sensitization to repeated injections of immunoglobulin, slight temperature elevation, angioneurotic edema, nephritic syndrome, anaphylactic shock; the use of HyperRHO sometimes produces the following adverse events: soreness at injection site, sensitization to repeated injections of immunoglobulin, slight temperature elevation, elevated bilirubin; and the use of GamaSTAN sometimes produces the following adverse events: local pain and injection site soreness, angioedema, anaphylaxis, and urticaria. When adverse events are reported to us, we investigate each event and circumstances surrounding it to determine whether it was caused by our product and whether it implies a previously unreco gnized safety issue exists. Periodically, we report summaries of these events to the applicable regulatory authorities. 25 Table of Contents In addition, the use of our products may be associated with serious and unexpected adverse events, or with less serious reactions at a greater than expected frequency. This may be especially true when our products are used in critically ill patient populations. When these unexpected events are reported to us, we must make a thorough investigation to determine causality and implications for product safety. These events must also be specifically reported to the applicable regulatory authorities. If our evaluation concludes, or regulatory authorities perceive, that there is an unreasonable risk associated with the product, we would be obligated to withdraw the impacted lot(s) of that product. Furthermore, an unexpected adverse event of a new product could be recognized only after extensive use of the product, which could expose us to product liability risks, enforcement action by regulatory a uthorities and damage to our reputation and public image. We have received reports that some Gamunex patients have experienced transient hemolysis and/or hemolytic anemia, which are known potential side effects for this class of drugs. Since 2005, a disproportionate number of these reports have been received from Canada, where our product accounted for 80% of all IGIV distributed in 2008. The Canadian product labeling was updated in 2005 after these hemolysis events were first reported to Health Canada. Subsequently, Talecris provided annual updates on these events to Health Canada from 2006 to 2008, but no further action was recommended by the Canadian regulators. A serious adverse finding concerning the risk of hemolysis by any regulatory authority for intravenous immune globulin products in general, or Gamunex in particular, could adversely affect our business and financial results. Once we produce a product, we rely on physicians to prescribe and administer them as we have directed and for the indications described on the labeling. It is not, however, unusual for physicians to prescribe our products for “off-label” uses or in a manner that is inconsistent with our directions. For example, a physician may prescribe an infusion rate for our Gamunex IGIV product that is greater than our directed infusion rate, which in turn may reduce its efficacy or result in some other adverse affect upon the patient. Similarly, a physician may prescribe a higher or lower dosage than the dosage we have indicated, which may also reduce our product’s efficacy or result in some other adverse affect upon the patient. To the extent such off-label uses and departures from our administration directions become pervasive and produce results such as reduced efficacy or other adverse e ffects, the reputation of our products in the marketplace may suffer. When a new product is approved, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may require post-approval clinical trials, sometimes called Phase IV clinical trials. For example, FDA has required such trials for A1PI products, including our recently approved A1PI next generation product, Prolastin-C. If the results of such trials are unfavorable, this could result in the loss of the license to market the product, with a resulting loss of sales. Our products face increased competition. Recently, certain of our products have experienced increased competition. Until 2004, we were one of two North American suppliers with an approved liquid IGIV product. In 2004, Grifols launched Flebogamma® 5% liquid IGIV and Octapharma launched Octagam® 5% liquid IGIV. In 2005, Baxter’s Gammagard® 10% liquid IGIV was launched. In 2007 CSL Behring received approval for Privigen® 10% liquid IGIV. Privigen® was launched in the U.S. in 2008. In 2010, CSL Behring received FDA approval and launched Hizentra Immune Globulin Subcutaneous (Human) 20% liquid. Also in 2010, Grifols received FDA approval and launched its 10% liquid IGIV, Flebogamma 10% DIF.We expect Octapharma to launch a 10% liquid IGIV product in the U.S. Omrix and Biotest are both seeking approval for liquid IGIV products in the U.S., which, if approved, will further increase competition among liquid IGIV products. Additionally, Bio Products Laboratory received approval from the FDA for its 5% concentration IGIV for PI. As competition has increased, competitors have discounted the price of IGIV products. Furthermore, many customers are increasingly more price sensitive regarding IGIV products. Octapharma’s IGIV products have been off the market during much of 2 010 in the U.S. and other parts of the world. When Octapharma resumes sales of its products, it may discount prices to regain lost market share. If customers demand lower priced products of competitors, we may lose sales or be forced to lower our prices. In Canada, we have been the “supplier of record” since the 1980s. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, annual volume declines in Canada due to Canadian Blood Services objective to have multiple sources of supply, which has impacted and will continue to impact our overall IGIV growth. Canadian Blood Services may further reduce volumes to contract minimums and Hema Quebec may adopt a similar strategy. 26 Table of Contents Until December 2002, our A1PI product, Prolastin A1PI, was the only plasma product licensed and marketed for therapy of congenital A1PI deficiency-related emphysema in the U.S. Accordingly, until that time, Prolastin A1PI had virtually 100% market share in its category. In December 2002 and July 2003, predecessors of Baxter and CSL Behring received licenses for Aralast and Zemaira, respectively, which were launched in the U.S. in 2003, and Grifols received marketing authorization for Trypsone in Spain in 2003. Due in part to our inability to fully meet demand for A1PI product, as well as patient losses due to the nature of the disease, our share of sales has dropped to approximately 62% in 2009 in the United States and 74% in 2008 globally according to the Marketing Research Bureau, which is referred to as MRB. Competitors may increase their sales, lower their prices or change th eir distribution model, which may harm our product sales and financial condition. Also, if the attrition rate of our Prolastin/Prolastin-C A1PI patient base accelerates faster than we have forecast, we would have fewer patients and lower sales volume. In addition, Kamada Ltd. received approval of its BLA for its liquid A1PI product, Glassia, on July 1, 2010. In the European Union, we have an 87% share of A1PI sales in 2008 according to MRB data, and have the only licensed A1PI product, other than Grifols, which has marketing authorization for Trypsone A1PI in Spain, and LFB, which sells Alfalastin in France. Our competitors are currently pursuing licensing trials in Europe. Should our competitors receive approvals in the European Union sooner than expected, our unit volumes and share of sales will be impacted. New products may reduce demand for plasma-derived A1PI. A recombinant form of A1PI (recA1PI) could gain market share through the elimination of the risk of plasma-borne pathogens, or through a reduced price permitted by significantly decreased costs (because the recA1PI would not be sourced from plasma). In addition to us, Arriva and GTC Biotherapeutics are in the early stages of development for a recombinant form of recA1PI. Although we are not aware of any active clinical trials for a recA1PI product, a successful recA1PI, prior to us developing a similar product, could gain first mover advantage and result in a loss of our A1PI market share. If a new formulation of A1PI is developed that has a significantly improved rate or method of administration, such as aerosol inhalation, the market share of Prolastin/Prolastin-C A1PI could be negatively impacted. Similarly, several companies are attemp ting to develop products which would be substitution threats in the A1PI sector, including retinoic acid, oral synthetic elastase inhibitors and gene therapy. While these products are all in early stages of development, the potential for successful product development and launch cannot be ruled out. In addition, our plasma-derived therapeutics face competition from non-plasma products and other courses of treatments. For example, two RhD hyperimmune globulins for intravenous administration, Cangene’s WinRho SDF and CSL Behring’s Rhophylac, are now approved for use to treat ITP, and GSK and Amgen launched thrombopoietin inhibitors targeting ITP patients in 2008 that may reduce the demand for IGIV to treat this immune disorder. There is also a risk that indications for which our products are now used will be susceptible to new treatments, such as small molecules, monoclonal or recombinant products. Recombinant Factor VIII product competes with our own plasma-derived product in the treatment of Hemophilia A and is perceived by many experts to have lower risks of disease transmission. Additional recombinant products or the use of monoclonal antibodies, small molecules or stem cell transplantations co uld compete with our products and reduce the demand for our products. Crucell and Sanofi Pasteur have completed Phase II clinical trials for a monoclonal rabies product to compete with our rabies hyperimmune product. If successful, we estimate that the monoclonal product could take a significant portion of the rabies market in years subsequent to its introduction. Also, in February 2009, GTC Biotherapeutics obtained FDA approval of a competitive ATIII product for the treatment of hereditary antithrombin deficiency, which is derived from the milk of transgenic goats. This product now directly competes with our product, Thrombate III (Human), which had been the only FDA approved product. We do not currently sell any recombinant products. Although we are attempting to develop recombinant versions of Plasmin, A1PI and Factor VIII, we cannot be certain that any of these products will ever be approved or commercialized. As a result, our product offerings may remain plasma-derived, even if our competitors offer recombinant products. Our financial performance will suffer if we do not improve the cost efficiency of our plasma collection platform. The opening of new plasma collection centers, which take up to several years to reach efficient production capacity, and the creation of a corporate infrastructure to support our vertical integration strategy have historically resulted in our per liter cost of plasma being higher than many of our larger competitors. In order to continue to improve the cost per liter of plasma, we will need to significantly increase production levels to leverage fixed costs, improve operational efficiency, reduce overall fixed costs, reduce variable costs such as donor fees or a combination of some or all of the foregoing. Our inability to significantly reduce the cost per liter of plasma will result in higher costs of operations, lower margins and lower cash flow than our competitors. If by attempting to reduce these costs, we adversely affect compliance with cGMP, we may be required to write-off plasma and any intermediates and products manufactured with non-compliant plasma and we may face shortages of plasma needed to manufacture our products. 27 Table of Contents We would become supply-constrained and our financial performance would suffer if we could not obtain adequate quantities of FDA-approved source plasma. In order for plasma to be used in the manufacturing of our products, the individual centers at which the plasma is collected must be licensed by the FDA, and approved by the regulatory authorities, such as the GHA, of those countries in which we sell our products. When a new plasma center is opened, and on an ongoing basis after licensure, it must be inspected by the FDA and GHA for compliance with cGMP and other regulatory requirements. An unsatisfactory inspection could prevent a new center from being licensed or risk the suspension or revocation of an existing license. In order to maintain a plasma center’s license, its operations must continue to conform to cGMP and other regulatory requirements. In the event that we determine that plasma was not collected in compliance with cGMP, we may be unable to use and may ultimately destroy plasma collected from that center, which would be recorded as a charge to cost of goods. Additionally, if non-compliance in the plasma collection process is identified after the impacted plasma has been pooled with compliant plasma from other sources, entire plasma pools, in-process intermediate materials and final products could be impacted. Consequently, we could experience significant inventory impairment provisions and write-offs which could adversely affect our business and financial results. During 2008, we experienced such an event at one of our plasma collection centers, which resulted in a charge to cost of goods sold of $23.3 million, for which we subsequently recovered $19.4 million through December 31, 2010. In this particular instance, a portion of the impacted plasma had been released to manufacturing prior to our detection of the issue. We plan to increase our supplies of plasma for use in our manufacturing processes through increased collections at our plasma collection centers and through selective remodeling or relocations of existing centers. This strategy is dependent upon our ability to successfully integrate new centers, to obtain FDA and GHA approval for the remaining unlicensed plasma centers, to maintain a cGMP compliant environment in all plasma centers, and to expand production and attract donors to our centers. Our ability to expand production and increase our plasma collection centers to more efficient production levels may be affected by changes in the economic environment and population in selected regions where TPR operates plasma centers, by the entry of competitive plasma centers into regions where TPR operates, by misjudging the demographic potential of individual regions where TPR expects to expand production and attract new donors, by unexpected facility related challenges, or by unexpected management challenges at selected plasma centers. In addition, beginning in 2012, the recently enacted healthcare reform legislation may require us to issue Internal Revenue Service Form 1099 to plasma donors whose remuneration equals or exceeds six hundred dollars annually. The cost of implementing this requirement, as well as its potential impact on plasma donations, is unknown at this t ime. Our financial performance is dependent upon third-party suppliers of FDA-approved source plasma. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we obtained 15.3% and 14.3% of our plasma under a five-year supply arrangement with CSL Plasma Inc., a subsidiary of CSL, a major competitor. The agreement with CSL Plasma Inc. provides that our minimum purchase obligations are: (i) 550,000 liters for calendar year 2010; (ii) 300,000 liters of plasma for each of calendar years 2011 and 2012; and (iii) 200,000 liters of plasma for calendar year 2013. Each quarter, CSL Plasma Inc. is obligated to deliver at least 20% of our minimum purchase obligation for that year. We notified CSL Plasma Inc that we will not elect to take optional volumes under the contract in 2011. Either we or CSL Plasma Inc. may terminate the agreement in the event of material nonperformance after a 30-day cure period. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we obtained 9.9% and 8.9% of our plasma from Interstate Blood Bank, Inc. (IBBI). The agreement with IBBI requires us to make a minimum purchase of 330,000 liters of plasma for each year during the term of the agreement, which terminates at the end of 2016. We have a right of first refusal with respect to any material quantities of plasma that IBBI has available for sale in excess of this amount, as well as a right of first refusal with respect to the transfer of any asset, equity, or controlling interest of IBBI related to any of the centers which supply us. We also agreed to provide secured financing for additional centers approved by us and the relocation of IBBI’s plasma centers in a maximum amount of $1.0 million per center and $3.0 million in the aggregate. Either we or IBBI may terminate the agreement in the event of material nonperformance after a 30 day cure period. Were any dispute to arise or were CSL Plasma Inc. or IBBI to experience any plasma collection difficulties, it could be difficult or impossible for us to repl ace the shortfall, which would materially adversely affect our business. Plasma volumes obtained under arrangements with independent third parties have not always met expectations. An inability of any of our suppliers to operate their business successfully and satisfy their obligations in a timely manner may cause a disruption in our plasma supply, which could materially adversely affect our business. 28 Table of Contents Industry-wide disruptions could reduce the availability of FDA-approved source plasma and our financial performance would suffer. A number of other factors could disrupt our ability to increase source plasma collections, including but not limited to: · A lack of alternative plasma supply sources. In recent years, there has been consolidation in the industry as several plasma derivatives manufacturers have acquired previously independent plasma collectors. As a result, it could be difficult or impossible to resolve any significant disruption in the supply of plasma or an increased demand for plasma with plasma from alternative sources. · A reduction in the donor pool. Regulators in most of the large markets for plasma-derived products, including the United States, restrict the use of plasma collected from specific countries and regions in the manufacture of plasma-derived products. For example, the appearance of the variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, commonly referred to as “mad cow” disease (which resulted in the suspension of the use of plasma collected from U.K. residents), and concern over the safety of blood products (which has led to increased domestic and foreign regulatory control over the collection and testing of plasma and the dis qualification of certain segments of the population from the donor pool), have significantly reduced the potential donor pool. Our products have historically been subject to supply-driven price fluctuations. Our products, particularly IGIV, have historically been subject to price fluctuations as a result of changes in industry supply levels, the availability and pricing of plasma, development of competing products and the availability of alternative therapies. Higher prices for plasma-derived products have traditionally spurred increases in plasma production and collection capacity, resulting over time in increased product supply and lower prices. As demand continues to grow, if plasma supply and manufacturing capacity do not commensurately expand, prices tend to increase. The demand for plasma derived products, particularly for IGIV, over the last few years has resulted in efforts on the part of companies, including ourselves, to increase manufacturing capacity and open new plasma collection centers to increase the availability of source plasma. Some of our competitors have announced plans to grow product supply at a rate above expected demand growth. The growth in demand for IGIV has been outpaced by the recent supply growth, as evidenced by increased supply in the distribution channel. We, or our competitors, may misjudge demand growth and over-invest in expanding plasma collection or manufacturing capacity, which ultimately may result in lower prices for, or inability to sell, our products. Exchange rate fluctuations and our foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. As a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. Our most significant foreign currency exposure is the euro. Although from time to time, we may enter into foreign currency exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our foreign receivables and forecasted sales transactions, these hedging transactions do not eliminate that risk entirely. These hedges may also serve to reduce any gain that we may have made based on favorable foreign currency fluctuations. Furthermore, these contracts have inherent levels of counterparty risk over which we have no control. We are exposed to potential losses if a counterparty fails to perform according to the terms of the agreement. We do not requir e collateral or other security to be furnished by counterparties to our derivative financial instruments. A number of financial institutions similar to those that serve or may serve as counterparties to our hedging arrangements were adversely affected by the global credit crisis. The failure of any of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations to us could adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2010, we were not a party to any foreign currency hedges. During the first quarter of 2011, we entered into approximately $49.5 (€37.1) million in notional value of fair value hedges against firm commitments and $38.4 (€28.2) million in notional value of cash flow hedges against anticipated future sales. The weighted average U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate on these foreign currency contracts is 1.3461. We are investigating potential Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations. We are conducting an internal investigation into potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) that we became aware of during the conduct of an unrelated review. The FCPA investigation is being conducted by outside counsel under the direction of a special committee of our board of directors. The investigation initially focused on sales to certain Eastern European and Middle Eastern countries, primarily Belarus, Russia and Iran, but we are also reviewing sales practices in Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Georgia, Libya, Poland, Turkey, Ukraine and other countries as deemed appropriate. 29 Table of Contents In July 2009, we voluntarily contacted the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to advise them of the investigation and to offer our cooperation in any investigation that they want to conduct or they want us to conduct. The DOJ has not indicated what action it may take, if any, against us or any individual, or the extent to which it may conduct its own investigation. Even though we self-disclosed this matter to the DOJ, it or other federal agencies may seek to impose sanctions on us that may include, among other things, debarment, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties, appointment of a monitor, appointment of new control staff, or enhancement of existing compliance and training programs. Other countries in which we do business may initiate their own investigations and impose similar penalties. As a result of this investigation, we suspended shipments to some of these countries wh ile we put additional safeguards in place. In some cases, safeguards involved terminating consultants and suspending relations with or terminating distributors in countries under investigation as circumstances warranted. These actions unfavorably affected revenue from these countries in 2010 and 2009. We have resumed sales in countries where we believe we have appropriate safeguards in place and are reallocating product to other countries as necessary. To the extent that we conclude, or the DOJ concludes, that we cannot implement adequate safeguards or otherwise need to change our business practices, distributors, or consultants in affected countries or other countries, this may result in a permanent loss of business from those countries. We expect to complete our internal FCPA investigation and present our findings to the DOJ in 2011. The preliminary findings of our investigation indicate that it is probable that there were FCPA violations by persons associated with us that the DOJ or other regu lators may assert are attributable to us. Given the preliminary nature of our findings, our continuing investigation and the uncertainties regarding this matter, we are unable to estimate the financial outcome. Any such sanctions or loss of business could have a material adverse effect on us or our results of operations financial condition, or cash flows. A pending investigation relating to our compliance with the terms of the Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement under the Public Health Service program may result in our being barred from allocating a fixed amount of IGIV as available for sale at the Public Health Service price. In November 2009, we received a letter from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (USAO). The USAO requested a meeting to review our compliance with the terms of the Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement (PPA) under the Public Health Service program. Specifically, the USAO asked for information related to the sale of our IGIV product, Gamunex, under that program. In order to have federal financial participation apply to their products under the Medicaid program and to obtain Medicare Part B coverage, manufacturers are required to enter into a PPA. The PPA obligates manufacturers to charge covered entities the Public Health Service price for drugs intended for outpatient use. The Public Health Service price is based on the Medicaid rebate amount. We believe that we have complied with the terms of the PPA and federal law. If the USAO de termines that our practices are inconsistent with the terms of the PPA, the USAO has stated that it may file a civil action against us under the Anti-fraud Injunction Act and seek a court order directing us to comply with the PPA or, potentially, proceed under some other legal theory. An adverse outcome in an Anti-fraud Injunction Act action could have a material adverse effect on us or our results of operation to the extent that we are barred from allocating a fixed amount of IGIV as available for sale at the Public Health Service price and we are forced to give a preference to those purchasers over all other customers. We could also be subject to fines, damages, penalties, appointment of a monitor, or enhancement of existing compliance and training programs as a result of government action. We are cooperating with the investigation and intend to respond to information requests from the USAO. Our ability to export products to Iran requires annual export licenses and the use of intermediate or advisory banks. In 2010, we had sales of $16.6 million, or approximately 1.0% of our net revenue, to customers located in Iran pursuant to an export license which must be renewed annually. Although the Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) renewed our license to supply humanitarian products, tensions with Iran continue to impede our ability to conduct business in Iran. Our revenues related to our business in Iran have declined in 2010 compared to 2009 and are likely to continue to decline in the future. Our ability to continue to produce safe and effective products depends on the safety of our plasma supply against transmittable diseases. Despite overlapping safeguards, including the screening of donors and other steps to remove or inactivate viruses and other infectious disease causing agents, the risk of transmissible disease through plasma-derived products cannot be entirely eliminated. For example, since plasma-derived therapeutics involve the use and purification of human plasma, there has been concern raised about the risk of transmitting HIV, prions, West Nile virus, H1N1 virus (commonly known as the swine flu) and other blood-borne pathogens through plasma-derived products. There are also concerns about the future transmission of H5N1 virus (commonly known as the bird flu). In the 1980s, thousands of hemophiliacs worldwide were infected with HIV through the use of contaminated Factor VIII. Bayer and other producers of Factor VIII, though not us, are defendants in numerous lawsuits resulting from these infections.< /p> 30 Table of Contents New infectious diseases emerge in the human population from time to time. If a new infectious disease has a period during which time the causative agent is present in the bloodstream but symptoms are not present, it is possible that plasma donations could be contaminated by that infectious agent. Typically, early in an outbreak of a new disease, tests for the causative agent do not exist. During this early phase, we must rely on screening of donors (e.g., for behavioral risk factors or physical symptoms) to reduce the risk of plasma contamination. Screening methods are generally less sensitive and specific than a direct test as a means of identifying potentially contaminated plasma units. During the early phase of an outbreak of a new infectious disease, our ability to manufacture safe products would depend on the manufacturing process’ capacity to inactivate or remove the infectious agent. To the extent that a product’s manufacturing process is inadequate to inactivate or remove an infectious agent, our ability to manufacture and distribute that product would be impaired. If a new infectious disease were to emerge in the human population, the regulatory and public health authorities could impose precautions to limit the transmission of the disease that would impair our ability to procure plasma, manufacture our products or both. Such precautionary measures could be taken before there is conclusive medical or scientific evidence that a disease poses a risk for plasma-derived products. In recent years, new testing and viral inactivation methods have been developed that more effectively detect and inactivate infectious viruses in collected plasma. There can be no assurance, however, that such new testing and inactivation methods will adequately screen for, and inactivate, infectious agents in the plasma used in the production of our products. If our Clayton facility or other major facilities, or the facilities of our third-party suppliers, were to suffer a crippling accident, or a force majeure event materially affected our ability to operate and produce saleable products, a substantial part of our manufacturing capacity could be shut down for an extended period. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from products manufactured, and services performed, at our plants located in Clayton, North Carolina and Melville, New York. In addition, a substantial portion of our plasma supply is stored at facilities in Benson, North Carolina, and our Clayton facility. If any of these facilities were to be impacted by an accident or a force majeure event such as an earthquake, major fire or explosion, major equipment failure or power failure lasting beyond the capabilities of our backup generators, our revenues would be materially adversely affected. In this situation, our manufacturing capacity could be shut down for an extended period and we could experience a loss of raw materials, work in process or finished goods inventory. Other force majeure events such as terrorist acts, influenza pandemic or similar events could also impede our ability to operate our business. In addition, in any such event, the reconstruction of our Clayton fractionation plant or our plasma storage facilities, the regulatory approval of the new facilities, and the replenishment of raw material plasma could be time-consuming. During this period, we would be unable to manufacture our products at other plants due to the need for FDA and foreign regulatory authority inspection and certification of such facilities and processes. While we maintain property damage and business interruption insurance with limits of $1 billion, these amounts may still be insufficient to mitigate the losses from any such event. We may also be unable to recover the value of the lost plasma or work-in-progress, as well as the sales opportunities from the products we would be unable to produce. A significant number of our plasma collection centers are located near the U.S. border with Mexico. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 21% and 22%, respectively, of our internally sourced plasma came from collection centers located on the United States border with Mexico. Donations at these centers could be impacted by changes in U.S. visa rules and the recently enacted healthcare reform legislation, which may require us beginning in 2012 to issue Internal Revenue Service Form 1099 to plasma donors whose remuneration equals or exceeds six hundred dollars annually. The cost of implementing this requirement, as well as its potential impact on plasma donations, is unknown at this time. In addition, we have a number of plasma centers in regions of the southeast which could be affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes. A disruption i n our source of plasma due to events arising in a geographic region where many of our collection centers are located would limit our ability to maintain our current production levels of plasma-derived products. If we experience equipment difficulties or if the suppliers of our equipment or disposable goods fail to deliver key product components or supplies in a timely manner, our manufacturing ability would be impaired and our product sales could suffer. We depend on a limited group of companies that supply and maintain our equipment and provide supplies such as chromatography resins, filter media, glass and stoppers used in the manufacture of our products. In some cases we have only one qualified supplier. If our equipment should malfunction, the repair or replacement of the machinery may require substantial time and cost, which could disrupt our production and other operations. Our plasma collection centers rely on disposable goods supplied by Haemonetics Corporation and information technology systems hosted by a subsidiary of Haemonetics Corporation. Our plasma collection centers cannot operate without an uninterrupted supply of these disposable goods and the operation of these systems. We have experienced periodic outages of these systems, but a material outage would affect our ability to operate our collection centers. Alternative sources for key component parts or disposable goods may not be immediately available. Any new equipment or change in supplied materials may require revalidation by us and/or review and approval by the FDA, or foreign regulatory authorities, including the German Health Authority, which may be time-consuming and require additional capital and other resources. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier in a reasonable time period, or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. As a result, shipments of affected products may be limited or delayed. Our inability to obtain our key source supplies for the manufacture of our products may require us to delay shipments of products, harm customer relationships and force us to curtail operations. 31 Table of Contents We purchase nearly all of our specialty plasma used for the production of hyperimmunes from a limited number of companies under short-term contracts. We currently rely on three companies — Biotest Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Octapharma AG, and Advanced Bioservices, LLC, which is referred to as ABS, a subsidiary of Kedrion SpA, all of which are our direct competitors — to supply nearly all of our specialty plasma required for the production of our hyperimmunes, which represented $69.8 million, or 4.4%, of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $74.2 million, or 4.8%, of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Specialty plasma is plasma that contains antibodies to specific diseases, usually because the donor has been vaccinated. Our contracts with suppliers of specialty plasma are usually on a short-term basis. We have entered into contracts with Octapharma and Biotest to secure our expected need for specialty plasma in 2011 and 2012. Depending upon these competitors’ production plans, it may be difficult to increase the amounts of plasma we purchase from them or to renew our contracts in the future. Our inability to replace the volumes provided by these suppliers through our own plasma collection efforts or through increased specialty plasma deliveries from other third parties would materially adversely affect our business. To the extent that we develop a supply of specialty plasma from our own collection centers, such specialty plasma may come at the expense of the plasma we use for our other products. It would also take significant time to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and develop a sufficient donor base. We rely in large part on third parties for the sale, distribution and delivery of our products. In the U.S., we regularly enter into distribution, supply and fulfillment contracts with group purchasing organizations, home care companies, alternate infusion sites, hospital groups, and others. We are highly dependent on these contracts for the successful sale, distribution and delivery of our products. For example, we rely principally on group purchasing organizations and on our distributors to sell our IGIV product and on Centric Health Resources to fulfill prescriptions for Prolastin/Prolastin-C A1PI. If the parties with which we contract breach, terminate, or otherwise fail to perform under the agreements, our ability to effectively distribute our products will be impaired and our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, through circumstances outside of our control, such as general economic decline, market saturation, or increased competition, we may be unable to s uccessfully renegotiate our contracts or secure terms which are as favorable to us. In addition, we rely on distributors for sales of our products outside the U.S. Disagreements or difficulties with our distributors supporting our export business could result in a loss of sales. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities, limit sales of our existing products and limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of plasma-derived therapeutic protein products. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and an even greater risk when we commercially sell any products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we could incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for our products and any product candidates that we may develop; · injury to our reputation; · withdrawal of clinical trial participants; · costs to defend the related litigation; · substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; · loss of revenue; and · the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. Bayer is the defendant in continuing litigation alleging that use of products manufactured at our Clayton site in the 1980s, prior to our formation transaction and carve-out from Bayer, resulted in the transmission of Hepatitis C virus and HIV to patients. Bayer is also a defendant in litigation alleging that thimerosal, a preservative that was added to some intra muscular (hyperimmune) immune globulin products until 1996 (at which time its use was discontinued), was the cause of autism and other disorders in children who received these products. While we are not a party to any of these actions, and Bayer has agreed to fully indemnify us from any claims or losses arising out of these actions, we cannot assure you that our products or any of their constituents or additives may not someday give rise to similar product liability claims that we will be forced to defend and which may have a material adverse affect on our business. 32 Table of Contents We have a global insurance policy with limits of $100 million with a per claim deductible of $5 million and an aggregate deductible of $10 million. This amount of insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. We intend to expand our insurance coverage as our sales grow. Insurance coverage is, however, increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Our products and manufacturing processes are subject to regulatory requirements and authority, including over our manufacturing practices and any product recalls. Our business is heavily regulated in all jurisdictions where we collect plasma or manufacture or sell our products. In particular, plasma collection activities in the United States are regulated by the FDA, which requires a licensing and certification process for each plasma collection center prior to opening and conducts periodic inspections of facilities and processes. Many states also regulate plasma collection, imposing similar obligations and additional inspections and audits. In addition, the marketing and sale of a pharmaceutical product such as plasma derivatives and parenteral solutions are subject to the prior registrations, listings, licenses and approvals of such products with the competent authorities of the jurisdiction where the product is to be marketed and sold, including compliance with promotion, labeling and advertising requirements. Our manufacturing facilities located in C layton, North Carolina, must meet strict European Union and FDA rules and our manufacturing facilities in Melville, New York, must comply with FDA rules. Our manufacturing facilities must also comply with applicable state laws. U.S. plasma centers collecting plasma for manufacture into products to be distributed in the European Union must also be approved by the competent European Health Authority. Collection centers and manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities. The consequences of adverse findings following inspections can be more serious, such as the temporary shutdown of such center or facility, the loss of that center’s or facility’s license because of alleged noncompliance with applicable requirements, a voluntary or mandatory recall of finished product released to the market, or the destruction of inventory. These more serious consequences are often highly public and may also prompt private products liability lawsuits, additional regulatory enforcement actions, the imposition of substantial fines or penalties by regulatory authorities, and damage to the reputation and public image of the collection or manufacturing facility. With respect to product recalls, we have, from time to time, voluntarily recalled plasma products that had been released to the market in an effort to address drug safety issues and may do so again in the future. Since it’s formation in 2005, we have had four recalls of finished biological products. The products involved were: Plasma Protein Fraction (Human) 5% USP, Plasmanate®, Lot Number: 26N39N1; Antihemophilic Factor (Human), Koate DVI®; Lot Numbers: 26N7802, 26N6XW1, 26N6N01, 26N7H01; Rho(D) Immune Globulin (Human); HyperRHO S/D®, Mini-Dose, Lot Number: 26N7XX1; and Plasbumin-5®, Albumin (Human) 5%, USP, Lot Number: 26N9P21. In addition, plasma unit retrievals are routinely handled between Talecris Plasma Resources and its consignee, exclusively Talecris Biotherapeutics, when new information relevant to donor or plasma suitability is received after a donation is collected. Plasma unit retrievals are also triggered if units were distributed that should have been rejected by the plasma center. A minority of unit retrievals are required to be reported to the FDA as Biological Product Deviation Reports (“BPDRs”), and a relatively small number are classified by the FDA as recalls. There have been approximately 176 incidents that resulted in retrievals of plasma units by Talecris Plasma Resources from 2007 through December 2010 that have been classified as recalls by the FDA. In addition, the FDA conducts ongoing monitoring and surveillance of advertising and promotional matter used by manufacturers to sell and promote their products. The FDA assesses these materials for compliance with the FDCA, regulations on misbranding and other requirements, for example, assessing if information about the risks and benefits of regulated products are communicated in a truthful, accurate, science-based, non-misleading and balanced manner. The FDA issued Untitled Letters on three occasions since 2008 requesting that we change advertising materials on the basis that they were inconsistent with the package insert for the product. We addressed these matters to the satisfaction of the FDA. In particular, our manufacturing processes are governed by detailed and constantly evolving federal and sometimes state regulations that set forth cGMP for drugs and devices manufactured or distributed in the United States. We monitor compliance with these evolving procedures and regulations to help assure compliance, but failure to adhere to established procedures or regulations, or to meet a specification, could require that a product or material be rejected and destroyed, and could result in adverse regulatory actions against the companies. As a result of routine inspections by regulatory health authorities, we have been issued observations, for example, Form 483 FDA Inspection Observations, with regard to cGMP compliance. While these issues have been corrected, no assurances can be provided that we will avoid citation for deficiencies in the future. If serious deficiencies are noted or recur, compliance may be costly and difficult to achieve, and consequences may include the need to recall product or suspend operations until appropriate measures can be implemented. Also, certain deviations from procedures must be reported to the FDA, and even if we determine that the deviations were not material, the FDA could require us to take similar measures. 33 Table of Contents Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or failure by us or any third-party manufacturers, including Bayer, to comply with cGMP regulations, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: · restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; · withdrawal of products from the market; · voluntary or mandatory recall; · suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals and licenses; · cessation of our manufacturing activities, which may be for an extended or indefinite period of time; · product seizure; and · injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We could also be required to add warnings to our packaging or labeling that could negatively differentiate our product in the view of customers or patients. For example, we settled a dispute with a customer in September 2007 regarding intermediate material manufactured by us, which is used by this customer in their manufacturing process. We recorded a charge to cost of goods sold of $7.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2007 for inventory impairment related to this material, which we recovered in its entirety during 2008 as the related material was determined to be saleable, converted into final product, and sold to other customers. Similarly, during 2008, we recorded an additional inventory impairment provision of $2.6 million related to this dispute for products held in Europe, for which we recovered $0.8 million and $1.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, as the impacted material was determined to be saleable, converted into final product, and sold to other customers. Separately, our plans to transition from Prolastin to our next generation therapy, Prolastin-C A1PI, in Europe have been delayed because we have yet to receive European regulatory approval. Presently additional clinical trials are being required by European regulators as a precursor to Prolastin-C A1PI approval. Additionally, we could face further delays with respect to launches in specific European countries. To the extent regulatory authorities do not act within the same time-frame, we will need to operate both new and old manufacturing processes in parallel with overlapping crews, higher costs, and lower yields. Certain of our business practices are subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities, as well as to lawsuits brought by private citizens under federal and state false claims laws. Failure to comply with applicable law or an adverse decision in lawsuits may result in adverse consequences to us. The laws governing our conduct are enforceable by criminal, civil and administrative penalties. Violations of laws such as the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Law, the Public Health Service Act, and any regulations promulgated under their authority, may result in jail sentences, fines, or exclusion from federal and state programs, as may be determined by Medicare, Medicaid and the Department of Defense and other regulatory authorities as well as by the courts. There can be no assurance that our activities will not come under the scrutiny of regulators and other government authorities or our practices will not be found to violate applicable laws, rules and regulations or prompt lawsuits by private citizen “relators” under federal or state false claims laws. For example, under the Anti-Kickback Law, and similar state laws and regulations, even common business arrangements, such as discounted terms and volume incentives for customers in a position to recommend or choose drugs and devices for patients, such as physicians and hospitals, can result in substantial legal penalties, including, among others, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and arrangements with referral sources must be structured with care to comply with applicable requirements. Also, certain business practices, such as consulting fees to healthcare providers, sponsorship of educational or research grants, charitable donations, interactions with healthcare providers that prescribe products for uses not approved by the FDA, and financial support for continuing medical education programs, must be conducted within narrowly prescribed and controlled limits to avoid any possi bility of wrongfully influencing healthcare providers to prescribe or purchase particular products or as a reward for past prescribing. Under the U.S. healthcare reform legislation, such payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers to United States healthcare practitioners and academic medical centers must be publicly disclosed starting with payments made in calendar year 2012. A number of states have similar laws in place. Additional and stricter prohibitions could be implemented by federal and state authorities. Where such practices have been found to be improper incentives to use such products, government investigations and assessments of penalties against manufacturers have resulted in substantial damages and fines. Many manufacturers have been required to enter into consent decrees or orders that prescribe allowable corporate conduct. 34 Table of Contents Failure to satisfy requirements under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act can also result in penalties, as well as requirements to enter into consent decrees or orders that prescribe allowable corporate conduct. Adverse consequences can also result from failure to comply with the requirements of the 340B/PHS program under the Public Health Service Act, which extends discounts to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS. Although the recently passed health care reform legislation adds a “must sell” obligation to the terms of the program’s Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement (PPA), under the current PPA no such obligation is stated, although some government regulators have suggested that a similar obligation exists. In November 2009, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania commenced an investigation with respect to our method of allocating our IGIV product, Gamunex, as available for sale at the PHS price to covered entities. We are cooperating with the investigation, and believe we have complied with the terms of the PPA and federal law, but an adverse outcome in this investigation could have a material adverse effect on us or our results of operation. In addition, while regulatory authorities generally do not regulate physicians’ discretion in their choice of treatments for their patients, they do restrict communications by manufacturers on unapproved uses of approved drugs or on the potential safety and efficacy of unapproved products in development. Companies in the United States, Canada and European Union cannot promote approved products for other indications that are not specifically approved by the competent regulatory authorities (e.g., FDA in the United States), nor can companies promote unapproved products. In limited circumstances companies may disseminate to physicians information regarding unapproved uses of approved products or results of studies involving investigational products. If such activities fail to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines of the various regulatory authorities, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. Furthermore, if such activities are prohibited, it may harm demand for our products. Promotion of unapproved drugs or devices or unapproved indications for a drug or device is a violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and subjects us to civil and criminal sanctions. Furthermore, sanctions under the Federal False Claims Act have recently been brought against companies accused of promoting off-label uses of drugs, because such promotion induces the use, and subsequent claims for reimbursement under Medicare and other federal programs. Similar actions for off-label promotion have been initiated by several states for Medicaid fraud. The U.S. healthcare reform legislation significantly strengthened provisions of the Federal False Claims Act, Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback provisions, and other health care fraud provisions, leading to the possibility of greatly increased qui tam suits by relators for perceived violations. Violations or allegations of violatio ns of the foregoing restrictions could materially and adversely impact our business. To market and sell our products outside of the United States, we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and comply with regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions. The approval procedures vary among countries in complexity and timing. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all, which would preclude us from commercializing products in those markets. In addition, some countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, regulate the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In these countries, pricing discussions with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of their product candidate to other available therapies. Such trials may be time-consuming, expensive, and may not show an advantage in efficacy for our products. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, in either the United States or the European Union, we could be adversely affected. Our business involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, various biological compounds and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials and chemicals. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not pro vide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us. Additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial capital costs and operating expenses to comply with any of these laws or regulations and the terms and conditions of any permits required pursuant to such laws and regulations, including costs to install new or updated pollution control equipment, modify our operations or perform other corrective actions at our respective facilities. In addition, fines and penalties may be imposed for noncompliance with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or for the failure to have or comply with the terms and conditions of required environmental permits. 35 Table of Contents On the international front, the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is commonly called the Kyoto Protocol, became effective in February 2005. Adopted by some of the countries in which we operate, the Kyoto Protocol requires the implementation of national programs to reduce emissions of certain gases, generally referred to as greenhouse gases, which contribute to global warming. Climate change-related legislation has also passed the U.S. House of Representatives, which, if enacted by the full Congress, would limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from large emitters of greenhouse gasses through a “cap-and-trade” system of allowances and credits and other provisions. Moreover, the Environmental Protection Agency, which is referred to as the EPA, issued a finding that the current and projected concentrations of certain greenhou se gases in the atmosphere, including carbon dioxide, which is referred to as CO2, threaten the public health and welfare of current and future generations. While this finding in itself does not impose any requirements on our industry, it authorizes the EPA to regulate directly greenhouse gas emissions through a rule-making process. Existing legislation and the future passage of climate control legislation or regulations that restricts emissions of greenhouse gases in the areas in which we operate could result in adverse financial and operational impacts on our business. In addition, we export our products to a variety of countries whose legal regimes and business customs and practices differ significantly from those in the United States. A failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to their international operations or export sales could expose them to significant penalties. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, competition regulations, anti-money laundering, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, including those of the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which is referred to as the FCPA, and local laws which also prohibit payments to corrupt governmental officials. While we require our employees to comply with applicable laws and we monitor legal compliance, we cannot be certain that our employees or agents will comply in all instances or that they will promptly identify violations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer products in one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our products’ reputations, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. We are currently conducting an internal investigation into violations of the FCPA of which we became aware during conduct of an unrelated review. As a result of the internal investigation, we suspended shipment to some countries while safeguards were implemented, and voluntarily contacted the U.S. Department of Justice. Any government sanctions or any continued loss of business from certain countries could have a material adverse effect on us or our operating results. To enhance compliance with applicable health care laws, and mitigate potential liability in the event of noncompliance, regulatory authorities, such as the United States Health and Human Services Department Office of Inspector General (“OIG”), have recommended the adoption and implementation of a comprehensive health care compliance program that generally contains the elements of an effective compliance and ethics program described in Section 8B2.1 of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines Manual. Increasing numbers of United States-based pharmaceutical companies have such programs. While we have adopted U.S. healthcare compliance and ethics programs that generally incorporate the OIG’s recommendations, and train our U.S. employees in such compliance, having such a program can be no assurance that we will avoid any compliance issues. We are required to provide accurate pricing information to the U.S. government for the purpose of calculating reimbursement levels by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and for calculating certain federal prices and federal rebate obligations. We are required to report detailed pricing information, net of included discounts, rebates and other concessions, to CMS for the purpose of calculating national reimbursement levels, certain federal prices, and certain federal rebate obligations. We have established a system for collecting and reporting this data accurately to CMS and have instituted a compliance program to assure that the information we collect is complete in all respects. If we report pricing information that is not accurate to the federal government, we could be subject to fines and other sanctions that could adversely affect our business. In addition, the government could change its calculation of reimbursement, federal prices, or federal rebate obligations which could negatively impact our financial results. We seek to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to our technology and products. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology and products, especially intellectual property related to our purification processes. The patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology or products. Even if issued, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Additionally, most of our patents relate to the processes we use to produc e our products, not the products themselves. In many cases, the plasma-derived products we produce or develop in the future will not, in and of themselves, be patentable. Since our patents relate to processes, if a competitor is able to design and utilize a process that does not rely on our protected intellectual property, that competitor could sell a plasma-derived product similar to one we developed or sell. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, we are a party to a number of license agreements which may impose various obligations on us, including milestone and royalty payments. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents. 36 Table of Contents Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in our or their issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. If a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of inve ntion in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our anticipated U.S. patent position. We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We require our officers, employees, consultants and advisors to execute proprietary information and invention and assignment agreements upon commencement of their relationships with us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our inventions, trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent wer e to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor to develop alternative products, we could face increased competition and lose a competitive advantage. We, like other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, may become aware of counterfeit versions of our products becoming available domestically and abroad. Counterfeit products may use different and possibly contaminated sources of plasma and other raw materials, and the purification process involved in the manufacture of counterfeit products may raise additional safety concerns, over which we have no control. Any reported adverse events involving counterfeit products that purport to be our products could harm our reputation and the sale of our products, in particular, and consumer willingness to use plasma-derived therapeutics generally. We may infringe or be alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. Our products or product candidates may infringe or be accused of infringing one or more claims of an issued patent or may fall within the scope of one or more claims in a published patent application that may be subsequently issued and to which we do not hold a license or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents or patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. If we are found to infringe the patent rights of a third party, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from a third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings cou ld have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us. We may, however, be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information of any such employee’s former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims and, even if we are successful in defending ourselves, could result in substantial costs to us or be distracting to our management. If we fail to defend any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. 37 Table of Contents We may not be able to commercialize products in development. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates or for marketing of existing products for new indicated uses, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive preclinical tests to demonstrate the safety of our product candidates in animals and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: · regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial within a country or at a prospective trial site respectively; · the regulatory requirements for product approval may not be explicit, may evolve over time and may diverge by jurisdiction; · our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we had expected to be promising; · the number of patients required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate, or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate, any of which would result in significant delays; · our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; · we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if any participant experiences an unexpected serious adverse event; · regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including non-compliance with regulatory requirements; · undetected or concealed fraudulent activity by a clinical researcher, if discovered, could preclude the submission of clinical data prepared by that researcher, lead to the suspension or substantive scientific review of one or more of our marketing applications by regulatory agencies, and result in the recall of any approved product distributed pursuant to data determined to be fraudulent; · the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; · the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate because we do not currently have any agreements with third-party manufacturers for the long-term commercial supply of any of our product candidates; · an audit of preclinical or clinical studies by the FDA or other regulatory authority may reveal non-compliance with applicable regulations, which could lead to disqualification of the results and the need to perform additional studies; and · the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: · be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates; · not be able to obtain marketing approval; · not be able to obtain reimbursement for our products in some countries; 38 Table of Contents · obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended; or · have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether any preclinical tests or clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant preclinical or clinical trial delays also could shorten the patent protection period during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. Even if clinical trials are successful, we may still be unable to commercialize the product due to difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval for the process or problems in scaling the engineering process to commercial production. Additionally, if produced, the product may not achieve an adequate level of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community to be profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the prevalence and severity of any side effects; · the efficacy and potential advantages over alternative treatments; · the ability to offer our product candidates for sale at competitive prices; · relative convenience and ease of administration; · the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; · the strength of marketing and distribution support; and · sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that any products which we may seek to develop will ever be successfully commercialized, and to the extent they are not, such products could be a significant expense with no reward. Our future success depends on our ability to retain members of our senior management and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our executive and scientific teams. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development, operational and commercialization objectives. In particular, we believe the loss of the services of Lawrence D. Stern, John M. Hanson, Mary J. Kuhn, Thomas J. Lynch, John R. Perkins, Joel E. Abelson, Stephen R. Petteway, John F. Gaither, Kari D. Heerdt, Daniel L. Menichella, James R. Engle and Bruce Nogales would significantly and negatively impact our business. Our risk of key employee turnover may increase due to the vesting of restricted shares in March 2010 and options in April 2010 and due to the announcement of our definitive merger agreement with Grifols. Recruiting and retaining qualified operations, finance and accounting, scientific, clinical and sales and marketing personnel will be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms, given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. Federal cGMP regulations also require that the personnel we employ and hold responsible for the collection, processing, testing, storage or distribution of blood or blood components be adequate in number, educational background, training and experience, including professional training as necessary, or combination thereof, and have capabilities commensurate with their assigned functions, a thorough understanding of the procedures or control operations they perform, the necessary training or experience, and adequate information concerning the application of relevant cGMP requirements for their individual responsibilities. Our failure to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel may result in a regulatory violation, affect product quality, require recall or market withdrawal of affected product, or a suspension or termination of our license to market our products, or any combination thereo f. 39 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on us. FFF Enterprises Inc. and Amerisource Bergen collectively accounted for approximately 27% of our net revenue for both the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Similarly, our accounts receivable balances have also been concentrated with a small number of customers. Amerisource Bergen accounted for approximately 13% of our accounts receivable, net, as of December 31, 2010 and FFF Enterprise, Inc. accounted for approximately 15% of our accounts receivable, net, as of December 31, 2009. In the event that any of these customers were to suffer an adverse downturn in their business or a downturn in their supply needs, our business could be materially adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that these customers will continue purchasing our products at past volumes, or, in the event that any of them were to cease doing business with us, that we could replace such customer on substa ntially similar terms or at all. Therefore, the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross profit and financial condition. Under certain market conditions, our customers’ liquidity may worsen and they may demand longer payment terms, higher early payment discounts, volume rebates and other concessions which would have adverse financial consequences on us. A significant amount of our U.S. Gamunex volume is contracted. As these contracts expire over the next few years, beginning in 2011, we may not be able to renew the commitments on as favorable terms, or at all. Since the late 1980s we have been the “supplier of record” for the Canadian blood system. Under existing contracts, we are the largest supplier of plasma-derived products to the Canadian blood system operators, Canadian Blood Services and Hema Quebec. We transport plasma from Canadian Blood Services and Hema Quebec collection centers to our manufacturing facility in Clayton, North Carolina for manufacture, and return the finished product, along with commercial product, for sale to Canadian Blood Services and Hema Quebec. Pricing for our products and services is set at the beginning of the contract period, subject to adjustment for inflation. The U.S. dollar based contracts are terminable upon default, or the occurrence of certain events, including a third party obtaining Canadian regulatory approval to introduce a significantly superior product or fractionation service, our products o r services becoming obsolete, or if we make certain nonrelated improvements and Canadian Blood Services or Hema Quebec do not accept the associated price increase. We were awarded new five year contracts in December 2007, which became effective April 1, 2008. The contracts may be extended for two one-year terms upon agreement of the parties. Under these contracts, we fractionate 100% of the Canadian plasma initially and a majority of the Canadian plasma throughout the contract period and supply a majority of the Canadian requirements for IGIV during the contract term as well. Canadian Blood Services has elected to pursue a multi-source strategy and although we will continue to be the primary supplier, we anticipate annual volume declines because of their strategy. Hema Quebec currently has a sole source strategy for fractionation of their plasma but could switch to a multi-source strategy. In 2010 we fractionated 71% of Canadian plasma and supplied 67% of Canadian requirements of IGIV. We der ive significant revenue and profits under these contracts, and a failure to maintain contracts with the Canadian blood system operators or any diminution in the volume or price under future contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Potential business combinations could require significant management attention and prove difficult to integrate with our business. If we become aware of potential business combination candidates that are complementary to our business, we may decide to combine with such businesses or acquire their equity or assets. We have acquired businesses or product lines in the past. For example, in April 2005, we acquired Precision Pharma Services, Inc., a contract fractionator located in Melville, New York, and in November 2006 and June 2007 we acquired groups of plasma collection centers in varying stages of development and assumed certain liabilities from IBR, a supplier of source plasma. We have since acquired additional plasma collection centers on a case by case basis. Business combinations generally may involve a number of difficulties and risks to our business, including: · failure to integrate management information systems, personnel, research and development, marketing, operations, sales and support; · potential loss of key current employees or employees of the acquired company; · disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · potential loss of the acquired company’s customers; · failure to develop further the other company’s technology successfully; · unanticipated costs and liabilities; and · other accounting and operational consequences. 40 Table of Contents In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from any business combination we may undertake in the future and any benefits we do realize may not justify the acquisition price. Any integration process would require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. If our customers are uncertain about our ability to operate on a combined basis, they could delay or cancel orders for our products. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or accurately forecast the financial impact of a combination, including accounting charges or volatility in the stock price of the combined entity. If we fail to successfully integrate other companies with which we may combine in the future, our business and financial results could be harmed. Talecris Holdings, LLC and its affiliated entities will continue to exercise significant control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of December 31, 2010 Talecris Holdings, LLC owned approximately 48.7% of our outstanding common stock. Talecris Holdings, LLC is owned by (i) Cerberus-Plasma Holdings LLC, the managing member of which is Cerberus Partners, L.P., and (ii) limited partnerships affiliated with Ampersand Ventures. Substantially all rights of management and control of Talecris Holdings, LLC are held by Cerberus-Plasma Holdings LLC. As long as Talecris Holdings, LLC owns or controls such a substantial portion of our outstanding voting power, it may have the ability to delay or prevent a change in control of us that may be favored by other stockholders and may otherwise exercise substantial control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval: · the election and removal of directors and the size of our board; · any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; · the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or · the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit our other stockholders. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate and this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to our investors. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate. A number of factors, many of which are not within our control, could cause variability in our operations and our operating results and may result in fluctuations in our stock price. These factors include the risks discussed elsewhere in this section, and may include: · contamination of products or material that does not meet specifications in production or final product which could result in recalls, write-offs and other costs; · changes in plasma procurement costs, yield, or other manufacturing costs that may increase our cost of goods sold for the period; · non-capitalizable costs associated with our capital projects; · seasonality of sales, particularly our hyperimmune products; · competitor activities, including new product introductions; · variations in product demand or price; · regulatory developments in the United States and elsewhere; · the departure of key personnel; · interest rate fluctuations impacting our outstanding balances under our floating rate revolving credit facility and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the international markets in which we operate; and · general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our operations. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may rapidly decline, resulting in losses to our investors. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are included in “Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” located elsewhere in this Annual Report. 41 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all funds for use in the operation of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Therefore, any return on investment in our common stock is solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market. We cannot guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value. See the discussion contained elsewhere in this Annual Report under the heading “Dividend Policy.” Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more additional indebtedness in the future, including by accessing approximately $322.6 million of unused available borrowing capacity under our existing revolving credit facility, based on our December 31, 2010 indebtedness. We are not fully restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not prohibited by the terms of the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes, any of which actions could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the 7.75% Notes when due and further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Furthermore, the terms of the instruments governing our subsidiaries’ indebtedness may not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from taking such actions. Although the indenture for the 7.75% Notes and our revolving credit facility contain covenants limiting indebtedness, these covenants are subject to a number of significant exceptions and qualifications. The indenture governing the 7.75% Notes and our revolving credit facility contain operating and financial restrictions on us that may limit our flexibility in operating our business. Under the indenture governing the 7.75% Notes and under the revolving credit facility, we are required to satisfy a number of covenants that may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. For instance, these covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, engage in unrelated businesses, incur certain liens; make prepayments of certain indebtedness and sell certain assets or merge with or into other’ companies. These covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any breach could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing, or to reduce expenditures. We cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms favorable to us. In addition, under our revolving credit facility, as amended, we are required to satisfy a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.10 to 1.00 if our borrowing availability based on eligible collateral is less than $48.75 million. If we were unable-to meet this fixed charge coverage ratio, the lenders could elect to terminate the facility and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. In such an event, unless we are able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace our revolving credit facility , we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs to service our debt or fund operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 