ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this prospectus before making a decision to invest in our units. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operating may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. With respect to the proposed business combination with Chaparral Energy, Inc., we refer you to the preliminary proxy statement filed with the SEC (and final proxy statement once it has been approved) for a discussion of the material risks applicable to the Transaction and the business and operations of Chaparral. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required timeframe, in which case, we will be forced to liquidate. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we will continue in existence only until December 11, 2009 or, in the event our stockholders approve the extended period, then only until June 11, 2010. If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, our corporate existence will, in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. In that event, we will distribute to all public stockholders, in proportion to the number of shares held by them, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account, inclusive of any interest, plus any remaining net assets, less expenses or reserves for obligations and claims of creditors. We will pay the costs of liquidation, which we currently estimate to be up to $15,000, from our remaining assets outside of the trust account. In addition, our sponsor has agreed to indemnify us for all claims of creditors to the extent that we fail to obtain valid and enforceable waivers from vendors, service providers, prospective target business or other entities in order to protect the amounts held in trust. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. You will not have any rights or interest in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of our liquidation or if they seek to redeem their respective shares of common stock into cash upon the approval of the extended period the stockholder voted against and the filing of an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware or upon a business combination which the stockholder voted against and which is completed by us. In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. If we are forced to liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive significantly less than $9.97 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we seek to have all vendors, target businesses, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the 17 Table of Contents trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the $9.97 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest and franchise taxes payable to the State of Delaware, which taxes shall be paid from the trust account, and any other amounts released to us described elsewhere in this prospectus), due to claims of such creditors. United Refining, Inc., our sponsor, has agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless against liabilities, claims, damages and expenses to which we may become subject as a result of any claim by any target business, prospective target business, vendor or other entity owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. We cannot assure you that our sponsor will be able to satisfy those obligations. The indemnification provisions are set forth in the insider letter executed by our sponsor in connection with our initial public offering. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Our independent directors may decide not to enforce the indemnification obligations of United Refining, Inc., our sponsor, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders upon liquidation. United Refining, Inc., our sponsor, has agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless against liabilities, claims, damages and expenses to which we may become subject as a result of any claim by any target business, prospective target business, vendor or other entity owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced and our sponsor asserts that it is unable to satisfy its obligations or that it has no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors would determine whether we would take legal action against our sponsor to enforce its indemnification obligations. While we currently expect that our independent directors would take action on our behalf against our sponsor to enforce its indemnification obligations, it is possible that our independent directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in a particular instance. If our independent directors choose not to enforce the indemnification obligations of our sponsor, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders may be reduced and the per share liquidation distribution could be less that the initial $9.97 per share. The holders of Public Shares who wish to have their shares redeemed into a pro rata portion of the trust account must comply with specific requirements for redemption that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their redemption rights prior to the deadline for exercising redemption rights. Our public stockholders who wish to have their shares redeemed into a pro rata portion of the trust account must tender their certificates to its transfer agent prior to the special meeting of stockholders held with respect to the Transaction or deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically through the Depository Trust Company DTC. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and the Company’s transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because the Company does not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly 18 Table of Contents longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. If it takes longer than anticipated to obtain a physical certificate, stockholders who wish to redeem their shares may be unable to obtain physical certificates by the deadline for redemption and thus will be unable to redeem their shares. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate the trust account, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless. In certain circumstances, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duties to our creditors, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after the termination of our existence by operation of law, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering (or by 30 months from such date in the event our stockholders approve the extended period). If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection therewith, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust account to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our 19 Table of Contents stockholders amounts owed to them by us. In the event of our liquidation, we may have to adopt a plan to provide for the payment of claims that may potentially be brought against us, which could result in the per-share liquidation amount to our stockholders being significantly less than $9.97. The Company’s directors have potential conflicts of interest in recommending that securityholders vote in favor of approval of the Transaction. Our sponsor, directors and executive officers of the Company have interests in the Transaction that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of the Company’s stockholders. These interests include: • the potential loss of the sponsor’s investment in the founder shares and Private Warrants and Sponsor Warrants; • the continued indemnification of current directors and officers of the Company following the Transaction and the continuation of directors’ and officers’ liability insurance after the Transaction; • the retention of John A. Catsimatidis and Myron L. Turfitt as directors of the combined Company and the offer of an employment agreement to Mr. Catsimatidis following the Transaction; and • the continued right of our sponsor to hold common stock in the Company. These interests may influence the Company’s directors in making their recommendation that you vote in favor of the approval of the Transaction. The NYSE Amex may delist the Company’s securities, which could limit investors’ ability to effect transactions in the Company’s securities and subject the Company to additional trading restrictions. The Company’s units, Common Stock and Public Warrants are listed on the NYSE Amex (the “Exchange”). On February 10, 2009, the Company received notice from the staff of the Exchange that it is not considered to be in compliance with Section 704 of the Exchange’s Company Guide because it did not hold an annual meeting of its stockholders during 2008. In order to maintain the listing of its Common Stock on the Exchange, the Company was required to submit a plan by March 10, 2009, advising the Exchange of the actions it had taken, or will take, that will bring it into compliance by August 11, 2009. The Company submitted a plan to the Exchange on March 10, 2009 explaining that, pursuant to its amended and restated articles of incorporation, the Company must consummate an initial business combination by December 11, 2009, or it will dissolve and liquidate. On May 11, 2009, the Company received a notice dated May 4, 2009 from the Exchange that its plan of compliance was accepted. On August 11, 2009, the Company submitted a request for an extension on the plan of compliance from August 11, 2009 to December 11, 2009. On November 6, 2009, the Company received verbal confirmation that the Company’s request for an extension on the plan of compliance was accepted. The Company cannot assure you that the Company’s securities will continue to be listed on the Exchange. Additionally, the Exchange requires the Company to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements, upon consummation of the Transaction. The Company cannot assure you the Company will be able to meet those initial listing requirements. Additionally, the Company will be required to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements, upon consummation of the Transaction. The Company cannot assure you the Company will be able to meet those initial listing requirements. There can be no assurance that the Company’s securities will be listed on the NYSE Amex following the Transaction or, if listed, that the Company will be able to comply with the continued listing standards of the NYSE Amex. The Company may not meet the listing standards of the NYSE Amex or NYSE following the consummation of the Transaction. For example, privately negotiated purchases of Public Shares discussed elsewhere in the proxy statement, if any, will reduce the number of shares of Common Stock in the public float and the number of 20 Table of Contents beneficial owners of the Company’s securities to a level that may inhibit the Company’s ability to meet the minimum holder requirements of the NYSE Amex and NYSE. If the NYSE Amex delists the Company’s securities from trading or the Company is unable to obtain approval of the NYSE for listing on the NYSE, the Company could face significant consequences, including: • a limited availability for market quotations for the Company’s securities; • reduced liquidity with respect to the Company’s securities; • a determination that the Common Stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in the Common Stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for the Common Stock; • limited amount of news and analyst coverage for the Company’s securities; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. In addition, the Company would no longer be subject to NYSE Amex rules, including rules requiring the Company to have a certain number of independent directors and to meet other corporate governance standards. If the stockholders of Chaparral and the Company’s sponsor exercises their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Common Stock and the existence of the registration rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. The stockholders of Chaparral are entitled to require the Company to register the resale of the securities received in connection with the Transaction. In addition, our sponsor is entitled to require the Company to register the resale of the founder shares and the shares of Common Stock underlying the Sponsor Warrants. If the stockholders of Chaparral or the Company’s sponsor exercises its registration rights with respect to all of its shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by it, then there will be an additional 91,750,000 shares of Common Stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional numbers of securities eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Common Stock and negatively impact the Company’s ability to secure future debt or equity financing. The Company’s stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against the Company to the extent of distributions received by them. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Company will continue in existence only until December 11, 2009. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company has not consummated a business combination by December 11, 2009, but has entered into a definitive merger agreement with respect to a business combination by such date, the Company may seek the approval of its holders of Public Shares to an amendment to its amended and restated certificate of incorporation to change the termination of the Company’s corporate existence from December 11, 2009 to June 11, 2010. This proxy statement does not include a proposal to extend the date on which the Company’s existence terminates. If the Company has not completed a business combination by such date, pursuant to the DGCL, its corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up its affairs and liquidating pursuant to Section 278 of the DGCL, in which case the Company will, as promptly as practicable thereafter, adopt a plan of distribution in accordance with Section 281(b) of the DGCL. Section 278 provides that the Company’s existence will continue for at least three years after its expiration for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits, whether civil, criminal or administrative, by or against the Company, and for enabling the Company gradually to settle and close its business, to dispose of and convey its property, to discharge its liabilities and to distribute to its stockholders any remaining assets, but not for the purpose of continuing the business for which it was organized. The Company’s existence will continue automatically even beyond the three year period for the purpose of completing the prosecution or defense of suits begun prior to the expiration of the three year period, until such time as any judgments, orders or decrees resulting from such suits are fully executed. Section 281(b) will require the Company to pay or make reasonable provision for all then-existing claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional or unmatured 21 Table of Contents contractual claims known to it, and to make such provision as will be reasonably likely to be sufficient to provide compensation for any then-pending claims and for claims that have not been made known to it or that have not arisen but that, based on facts known to the Company at the time, are likely to arise or to become known to it within ten years after the date of dissolution. Accordingly, the Company would be required to provide for any creditors known to it at that time or those it believes could be potentially brought against it within the ten years subsequent to distributing the funds held in the trust account to the holders of Public Shares. The Company cannot assure you it will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against it. As such, the holders of Public Shares could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of the holders of Public Shares may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that third parties will not seek to recover from the holders of Public Shares amounts owed to them by the Company. Public stockholders at the time of the Transaction who purchased their units in our initial public offering and do not exercise their redemption rights may have rescission rights and related claims. There are several aspects of the Transaction and the other matters described in the proxy statement filed with the SEC which were not described in the prospectus issued by the Company in connection with our initial public offering. These include: that the funds in the trust account might be used to purchase shares from stockholders of the Company who have indicated their intention to vote against the Transaction and redeem their shares for cash and that the Company would seek to amend the terms of the warrant agreement. Consequently, the Company’s use of funds in the trust account to purchase shares of stockholders who have indicated their intention to vote against the Transaction or the Company’s amendment of the Warrant Agreement might be grounds for a stockholder who purchased shares in the initial public offering, excluding the Company’s founder, and still held them at the time of the Transaction without seeking to redeem them for cash, to seek rescission of the purchase of the units he acquired in the initial public. A successful claimant for damages under federal or state law could be awarded an amount to compensate for the decrease in value of his or her shares caused by the alleged violation (including, possibly, punitive damages), together with interest, while retaining the shares. The rescission right and corresponding liability will continue against the Company after the Transaction. If the Company is required to pay damages, its results of operations could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 