Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face a variety of risks that may affect our business, financial condition, operating results or any combination thereof. Although many of the risks and uncertainties discussed below are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict, you should carefully consider the identified risks and uncertainties and other information contained in this Form 10-K in evaluating our business and prospects and before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occur or develop, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The following discussion addresses those risks that management believes are the most significant and that may affect our business, financial condition or operating results, although there are other risks that could arise or may become more significant than anticipated. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Revenue, Cash Flow, and Expenses Challenges Relating to Our Ability to Enter into New License Agreements Could Cause Our Revenue and Cash Flow to Decline. We face challenges in entering into new patent license agreements. The strength of our patent portfolio is an important factor in securing new license agreements and accompanying revenues. We have a broad worldwide portfolio of pending and issued patents covering a variety of wireless technologies. However, certain of our inventions that we believe will be employed in current and future products, including 4G products, are the subject of patent applications where no patent has been issued to us yet by the relevant patent issuing authorities. There is no assurance that these applications will issue as patents, either at all or with claims that would be required by products in the market currently or in the future. In addition, during discussions with unlicensed companies, the strength of our patent portfolio may be challenged and significant negotiation issues arise from time to time. For example, in the ordinary course of negotiations, in response to our demand that prospective customers enter into a license agreement, such prospective customers have raised and may continue to raise a variety of arguments, including, but not limited to: (i) claims challenging the essential nature of our patents; (ii) claims that their products do not infringe certain of our patents or that certain of our patents are invalid or unenforceable; (iii) claims that not all of our patents are applicable to their products and, thus, certain patents should be excluded from the license; (iv) claims that our royalty base should be limited to discrete functionality; (v) claims that our royalty rates are not fair, reasonable or nondiscriminatory; (vi) claims that their products are already subject to a license; (vii) claims that another entity in the distribution chain is a more appropriate licensing target; and (viii) claims that they are indemnified by a third party. In addition, prospective customers may raise concerns regarding the potential impact that any litigation, arbitration or other proceeding in which we are involved may have on such prospective customers. We cannot assure that all prospective customers will be persuaded during negotiations to enter into a patent license agreement with us, either at all or on terms acceptable to us, and, as a result, our revenue and cash flow could materially decline. Our Revenue May Be Impacted by the Deployment of 4G or Other Technologies in Place of 2G and 3G Technologies or by the Need to Extend or Modify Certain Existing License Agreements to Cover Additional Later Patents. Although we own a growing portfolio of issued and pending patents related to 4G and non-cellular technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and may not be as successful in generating licensing income as our 2G and 3G licensing programs. Many wireless operators are investigating or have selected LTE (or to a lesser extent WiMax) as next-generation technologies for deployment in existing or future spectrum bands as complementary to their existing 2G or 3G networks. Although we believe that certain of our technology is, may be or may become essential to LTE and WiMax Standards, we may not be as successful in licensing 4G products as we have been in licensing 2G and 3G products or we may not achieve a level of royalty revenues on such 4G products that is comparable to that we have historically received on 2G and 3G products. The licenses that we grant under our patent license agreements typically only cover products designated to operate in accordance with specified cellular technologies. As a result, we have patent license agreements that do not cover products designed to operate in accordance with technologies that have yet to be deployed or are in the early stages of deployment. For example, most of our patent licenses cover products designed to operate in accordance with GSM and/or WCDMA, but not LTE or Wi-Max. Also, we have patent license agreements with customers that now offer for sale products that were not sold by such customer at the time the patent license agreement was entered into and, thus, are not licensed by us. We do not derive patent licensing revenue from the sale of products by our customers that are not covered by a patent license agreement. In order to grant a patent license for any such products, we will need to extend or modify our patent license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such customers. We may not be able to modify these license agreements on financial terms acceptable agreeable to us, without affecting the other material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such customers, or at all. Further, such modifications may adversely affect our revenue on the sale of products covered by the license prior to modification. 25 Table of Contents Our Revenue and Cash Flow Are Dependent Upon Our Customers’ Sales and Market Conditions. A significant portion of our licensing revenues are running royalty-based and currently dependent on sales by our customers that are outside our control and that could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, including global and/or country-specific economic conditions, buying patterns of end users, competition for our customers’ products and any decline in the sale prices our customers receive for their covered products. In addition, our operating results also could be affected by general economic and other conditions that cause a downturn in the market for the customers of our products or technologies. Our revenue and cash flow also could be affected by (i) the unwillingness of any customer to satisfy all of their royalty obligations on the terms or within the timeframe we expect or a decline in the financial condition of any customer or (ii) the failure of sales to meet market forecasts due to global economic conditions, political instability, competitive technologies or otherwise. It is also difficult to predict the timing and amount of licensing revenue associated with past infringement and new licenses and the timing, nature or amount of revenues associated with strategic partnerships. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast and could adversely affect both our quarterly and annual operating results and financial condition. In addition, some of our patent license agreements provide for fixed payments or prepayments that cover our customers’ future sales for a specified period and reduce future cash receipts from those customers. As a result, our cash flow has historically fluctuated from period to period. Depending upon the payment structure of any new patent license agreements into which we may enter, such cash flow fluctuations may continue in the future. Royalty Rates Could Decrease for Future License Agreements. Royalty payments to us under future license agreements could be lower than anticipated. Certain customers and others in the wireless industry, individually and collectively, are demanding that royalty rates for patents be lower than historic royalty rates. There is also increasing downward pricing pressure on certain products that we believe implement our patented inventions. In addition, a number of companies have made claims as to the essential nature of their patents with respect to products for the cellular market. The increasing pricing pressure, as well as the number of patent holders of cellular technologies, could result in a decrease in the royalty rates we receive for use of our patented inventions, thereby decreasing future anticipated revenue and cash flow. Our Revenues Are Derived Primarily from a Limited Number of Customers. The mobile device market is very concentrated. As a result, we earn a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to come from a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. For example, in 2010, Samsung and LG comprised approximately 26% and 15% of our total revenues, respectively. In the event that one or more of our significant customers fail to meet their payment or reporting obligations under their respective license agreements, we lose any of these customers or our revenues from these customers significantly decline, our future revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Delays in Renewing or an Inability to Renew Existing License Agreements Could Cause Our Revenue and Cash Flow to Decline. Many of our license agreements have fixed terms. We endeavor to renew license agreements with fixed terms prior to the expiration of the license agreements and, based on various factors, including the technology and business needs and competitive positions of our customers, we may not be able to renegotiate the license agreements on acceptable terms before the expiration of the license agreement, on acceptable terms after the expiration of the license agreement, or at all. If there is a delay in renegotiating and renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there could be a gap in time during which we may be unable to recognize revenue from that customer or we may be forced to renegotiate and renew the license agreement on terms that are more favorable to such customer, and, as a result, our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to renegotiate and renew our license agreements at all, we could lose existing customers, and our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents It Can Be Difficult for Us to Verify Royalty Amounts Owed to Us Under Our Licensing Agreements, and This May Cause Us to Lose Potential Revenue. The standard terms of our license agreements require our customers to document the sale of licensed products and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our standard license terms give us the right to audit books and records of our customers to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. From time to time, we audit certain of our customers to verify independently the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty revenues to which we are entitled under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that these audits will be numerous enough and/or effective to that end. Challenges in Defending and Enforcing Our Patent Rights Could Cause Our Revenue and Cash Flow to Decline. Major telecommunications equipment manufacturers have challenged, and we expect will continue to challenge the infringement, validity and enforceability of certain of our patents. In some instances, certain of our patent claims could be substantially narrowed or declared invalid, unenforceable, not essential or not infringed. We cannot assure that the validity and enforceability of our patents will be maintained or that certain of our patents will be determined to be applicable to any particular product or Standard. Moreover, third parties could attempt to circumvent certain of our patents through design changes. Any significant adverse finding as to the validity, enforceability or scope of certain of our patents and/or any successful design-around of certain patents could result in the loss of patent licensing revenue from existing customers, through termination or modification of agreements or otherwise, and could substantially impair our ability to secure new patent licensing arrangements, either at all or on beneficial terms. Consolidation in the Wireless Communications Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The wireless communications industry has experienced consolidation of participants and sales of participants or their businesses, and these trends may continue. Any concentration or sale within the wireless industry may reduce the number of licensing opportunities or, in some instances, result in the reduction, loss or elimination of existing royalty obligations. Further, if wireless carriers consolidate with companies that utilize technologies that are competitive with our technologies or that are not covered by our patents, we could lose market opportunities, which could negatively impact our revenues and financial condition. Due to the Nature of Our Business, We Could Be Involved in a Number of Litigation, Arbitration and Administrative Proceedings to Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights. While some companies seek licenses before they commence manufacturing and/or selling devices that use our patented inventions, most do not. Consequently, we approach companies and seek to establish license agreements for using our inventions. We expend significant time and effort identifying potential users of our inventions and negotiating license agreements with companies that may be reluctant to take licenses. However, if we believe that a third party is required to take a license to our patents in order to manufacture, sell, offer for sale, import, or use products, we may commence legal or administrative action against the third party if they refuse to enter into a license agreement with us. In turn, we could face counterclaims that challenge the essential nature of our patents, that our patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed or that our royalty rates are other than fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory. As a result of enforcing our patents, we could be subject to significant legal fees and costs, including the costs and fees of opposing counsel in certain jurisdictions if we are unsuccessful. In addition, litigation, arbitration and administrative proceedings require significant key employee involvement for significant periods of time, which could divert these employees from other business activities. In addition, the cost of enforcing and defending our intellectual property has been and may continue to be significant. Litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, enforce patent license and confidentiality agreements or determine the validity, enforceability and scope of proprietary rights of others. In addition, third parties could commence litigation against us seeking to invalidate our patents or obtain a determination that our patents are not infringed, are not essential, are invalid or are unenforceable. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. 27 Table of Contents Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could require significant amounts of time by key members of executive management and other personnel. Risks Related to Our Business Operations, Strategy, Markets and Competition We Depend on Key Senior Management, Engineering, Patent, and Licensing Resources. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our directors, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel with specialized patent, licensing, engineering and other skills. The market for such talent in our industry is extremely competitive. In particular, competition exists for qualified individuals with expertise in patents and in licensing and with significant engineering experience in cellular and air interface technologies. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel could be affected by any adverse decisions in any litigation or arbitration, by our ability to offer competitive cash and equity compensation and work environment conditions and by the geographical location of our various offices. The failure to attract and retain such persons with relevant and appropriate experience could interfere with our ability to enter into new license agreements and undertake additional technology and product development efforts, as well as our ability to meet our strategic objectives. We Face Risks from Doing Business in International Markets. A significant portion of our customers are international, and our customers sell their products to markets throughout the world. Accordingly, we could be subject to the effects of a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including, but not limited to: difficulty in protecting our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; enforcing contractual commitments in foreign jurisdictions or against foreign corporations; government regulations, tariffs and other applicable trade barriers; currency control regulations and variability in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currency; social, economic and political instability; natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; potentially adverse tax consequences; and general delays in remittance of and difficulties collecting non-U.S. payments. In addition, we also are subject to risks specific to the individual countries in which we and our customers do business. Our Industry Is Subject to Rapid Technological Change, Uncertainty and Shifting Market Opportunities. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to define and keep pace with changes in industry Standards, technological developments and varying customer requirements. Changes in industry Standards and needs could adversely affect the development of, and demand for, our technology, rendering our technology currently under development obsolete and unmarketable. The patents and applications comprising our portfolio have fixed terms, and, if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to these changes through the development or acquisition of new patentable inventions, patents or other technology, we could miss a critical market opportunity, reducing or eliminating our ability to capitalize on our patents, technology solutions or both. Our Technologies May Not Be Adopted By the Market or Widely Deployed. We invest significant engineering resources in the development of advanced wireless technology and related solutions. These investments may not be recoverable or may not result in meaningful revenue if products based on the technologies in which we invest are not widely deployed. Competing digital wireless technologies could reduce the opportunities for deployment of technologies we develop. If the technologies in which we invest are not adopted in the mainstream markets or within time periods we expect, or if we are unable to secure partner support for our technologies, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We May Engage in Acquisitions or Strategic Transactions or Make Investments That Could Result in Significant Changes or Management Disruption and Fail to Enhance Shareholder Value. We continue to evaluate and may acquire businesses, technology and/or intellectual property, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities in other entities, including minority equity interests and corporate bonds/notes in publicly-traded and privately-held companies. In some cases, such strategic investments may serve as consideration for a license in lieu of cash royalties. Most strategic investments 28 Table of Contents entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. Acquisitions or strategic investments may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. In addition, other investments may not generate financial returns or may result in losses due to market volatility, the general level of interest rates and inflation expectations. We could make strategic investments in early-stage companies, which require us to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of those companies. Our share of any such losses may adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of acquired companies may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. We cannot assure you that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits we anticipate to result from such acquisitions. We may not derive any commercial value from the acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by the indemnification protection we may obtain. The High Amount of Capital Required to Obtain Radio Frequency Licenses, Deploy and Expand Wireless Networks and Obtain New Subscribers Could Slow the Growth of the Wireless Communications Industry and Adversely Affect Our Business. Our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. In order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the United States and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. Industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to obtain licenses to use new frequencies, deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services, expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services and obtain new subscribers. The significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions may slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand advanced wireless networks. The growth of our business could be adversely affected if this occurs. Market Projections and Data Are Forward-Looking in Nature. Our strategy is based on our own projections and on analyst, industry observer and expert projections, which are forward-looking in nature and are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The validity of their and our assumptions, the timing and scope of wireless markets, economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, pricing of products, growth in wireless telecommunications services that would be delivered on wireless devices and availability of capital for infrastructure improvements could affect these predictions. In addition, market data upon which we rely is based on third party reports that may be inaccurate. The inaccuracy of any of these projections and/or market data could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The Markets for Our Technology Solutions May Fail to Materialize in the Manner We Expect. We are positioning our current development projects for the evolving advanced digital wireless markets. Certain of these markets may continue to develop at a slower rate or pace than we expect and may be of a smaller size than we expect. In addition, there could be fewer applications for our technology and products than we expect. The development of advanced wireless markets also could be affected by general economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, pricing of advanced wireless infrastructure and mobile devices, rate of growth in telecommunications services and the availability of capital for, and the high cost of, radio frequency licenses and infrastructure improvements. Failure of the markets for our technologies and/or our products to materialize to the extent or at the rate we expect could reduce our opportunities for sales and licensing and could materially adversely affect our long-term business, financial condition and operating results. 29 Table of Contents We Face Competition from Companies with Greater Resources. Competition in the wireless telecommunications industry is intense. We face competition from companies developing other and similar technologies, including existing companies with in-house development teams, such as Qualcomm, Ericsson and Nokia, and new competitors to the market. Many current and potential competitors may have advantages over us, including: (i) longer operating histories and presence in key markets; (ii) greater name recognition; (iii) access to larger customer bases; (iv) economies of scale and cost structure advantages; and (v) greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources. Our Technology Development Activities May Experience Delays. We may experience technical, financial, resource or other difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies. Delays may have adverse financial effects and may allow competitors with comparable technology offerings to gain a commercial advantage over us. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have adequate staffing or that our development efforts will ultimately be successful. Moreover, certain of our technologies have not been fully tested in commercial use, and it is possible that they may not perform as expected. In such cases, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected, and our ability to secure new customers and other business opportunities could be diminished. We Rely on Relationships with Third Parties to Develop and Deploy Technology Solutions. Successful exploitation of our technology solutions is partially dependent on the establishment and success of relationships with equipment producers and other industry participants. Delays or failure to enter into licensing or other relationships to facilitate technology development efforts or delays or failure to enter into technology licensing agreements to secure integration of additional functionality could impair our ability to introduce into the market portions of our technology and resulting products, cause us to miss critical market windows or impair our ability to remain competitive. Other Risks The Outcome of Potential Domestic Patent Legislation, USPTO Rule Changes, International Patent Rule Changes and Third Party Legal Proceedings May Affect Our Patent Costs and Patent Prosecution, Licensing and Enforcement Strategies. Changes to certain U.S. and international patent laws and regulations may occur in the future, some or all of which may affect our patent costs, the scope of future patent coverage we secure and remedies we may be awarded in patent litigation, and may require us to reevaluate and modify our patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement strategies. In addition, the potential effect of rulings in legal proceedings among third parties may affect our patent prosecution, licensing, and enforcement efforts. We continue to monitor and evaluate our prosecution, licensing and enforcement strategies with regard to these developments; however, any resulting change in such strategies may have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. The Price of Our Common Stock Could Continue to be Volatile. Historically, we have had large fluctuations in the price of our common stock, and such fluctuations could continue. From January 1, 2006 to February 25, 2011, our common stock has traded as low as $16.20 per share and as high as $58.64 per share. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our stock price include, but are not limited to: general stock market conditions; general market conditions for the wireless communications industry; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; investor perceptions as to the likelihood of achievement of near-term goals; changes in market share of significant customers; announcements concerning litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings in which we are involved; announcements concerning licensing and product matters; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, joint ventures and acquisitions or divestitures; and our operating results. 30 Table of Contents Our Stockholders May Not Receive the Level of Dividends Provided for in Our Divided Policy or Any Dividend at All, and Any Decrease in or Suspension of the Dividend Could Cause Our Stock Price to Decline. Our initial dividend policy, adopted and announced in December 2010, contemplates the payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share on the Company’s outstanding common stock. We expect to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock at the rate set forth in our current dividend policy. However, the dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends under the policy are subject to the final determination each quarter by our Board of Directors that (i) the dividend will be made in compliance with laws applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends, including Section 1551(b) of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, and (ii) the policy remains in the best interests of the Company, which determination will be based on a number of factors, including the Company’s earnings, financial condition, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, restrictions imposed by any existing debt, economic conditions and other factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors. Given these considerations, our Board of Directors may increase or decrease the amount of the dividend at any time and may also decide to suspend or discontinue the payment of cash dividends in the future. Any decrease in the amount of the dividend, or suspension or discontinuance of payment of a dividend, could cause our stock price to decline. Approved Stock Repurchase Programs May Not Result in a Positive Return of Capital to Stockholders. Our approved stock repurchases may not return value to stockholders because the market price of the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Stock repurchase programs are intended to deliver stockholder value over the long term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the effectiveness of such programs. Changes to Our Tax Assets or Liabilities Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Consolidated Financial Condition or Results of Operations. The calculation of tax assets and liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. We are subject to examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing jurisdictions on various tax matters, including challenges to various positions we assert in our filings and foreign tax liability and withholding. With our January 1, 2007 adoption of the guidance for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, certain tax contingencies are recognized when they are determined to be more likely than not to occur. Although we believe we have adequately recorded tax assets and accrued for tax contingencies that meet this criterion, we may not fully recover our tax assets or may be required to pay taxes in excess of the amounts we have accrued. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, there were certain tax contingencies that did not meet the applicable criteria to record an accrual. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Currency Fluctuations Could Negatively Affect Future Product Sales or Royalty Revenues or Increase the U.S. Dollar Cost of Our Activities and International Strategic Investments. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. We operate and invest globally. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: • If the effective price of products sold by our customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty revenues. • Assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries may be subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. Our exposure to foreign currencies may increase as we expand into new markets. • Certain of our operating and investing costs, such as foreign patent prosecution, are based in foreign currencies. If these costs are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, strengthening currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our near-term operating expenses, investment costs and 31 Table of Contents cash flows. In addition, continued strengthening of currency values in selected regions over an extended period of time could adversely affect our future operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. Unauthorized Use or Disclosure of Our Confidential Information Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We enter into contractual relationships governing the protection of our confidential and proprietary information with our employees, consultants and prospective and existing customers and strategic partners. If we are unable to detect in a timely manner the unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary or other confidential information or if we are unable to enforce our rights under such agreements, the misappropriation of such information could harm our business. If Wireless Handsets Are Perceived to Pose Health and Safety Risks, Demand for Products of Our Customers Could Decrease. Media reports and certain studies have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to health concerns, such as brain tumors, other malignancies and genetic damage to blood, and may interfere with electronic medical devices, such as pacemakers, telemetry and delicate medical equipment. Growing concerns over radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, could discourage the use of wireless handsets and cause a decrease in demand for the products of our customers. In addition, concerns over safety risks posed by the use of wireless handsets while driving and the effect of any resulting legislation could reduce demand for the products of our customers. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 