ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: · the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and · the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Like many savings institutions, our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid thereby requiring us to reinvest those cash flows at lower interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management of Market Risk.” In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2007, the fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, consisting of agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt obligations, municipal obligations and preferred stock totaled $201.3 million. Unrealized net losses on these available-for-sale securities totaled $791,000 at December 31, 2007 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Further decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity using income simulation models that estimate the change in United Bank’s net interest income over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net income at risk measures the risk of a decline in earnings due to potential short-term and long term changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2007, the latest date for which such information is available, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the model projects that we would experience a 4.2% decrease in net interest income over the following twelve months. 35 Because We Intend to Increase Our Commercial Real Estate and Commercial and Industrial Loan Originations, Our Lending Risk Will Increase and Downturns in the Real Estate Market or Local Economy Could Adversely Affect Our Earnings. At December 31, 2007, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $214.8 million, or 26.0% of our total loans, and our portfolio of commercial and industrial loans totaled $81.6 million, or 9.9% of our total loans. These loans have increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio in recent years. These loans generally have more risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate or commercial and industrial loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate or commercial and industrial loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Because we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses because of the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any such increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. If Economic Conditions Deteriorate, Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Could Be Adversely Affected as Borrowers’ Ability to Repay Loans Declines and the Value of the Collateral Securing Our Loans Decreases. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Because we originate a significant number of mortgage loans secured by residential real estate, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for such loans. At December 31, 2007, loans secured by residential real estate, including home equity loans and lines of credit, represented 55.3% of our total loans. Adverse changes in the economy also may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. As of December 31, 2006, the unemployment rates in Hampden and Hampshire Counties, Massachusetts were 6.0% and 3.7%, respectively. At that same date, the Massachusetts unemployment rate was 4.5%. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings and cooperative institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our allowance for loan losses was 0.94% of total loans and 432.16% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2007. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. 36 In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 