ITEM 1A. Risk FACTORS. An investment in our common stock is risky. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before investing. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose part or all of your investment. We may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC in the future. Risks Related To Our Industry If the global economic downturn continues or worsens, our revenues and profitability could decline further. Consumer demand for our products and services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Declines in consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence or adverse political conditions can lower our revenues and profitability. Our business is also linked to cycles in the general economy and consumer discretionary spending. As a result, changes in consumer demand and general business cycles can subject and have subjected our revenues to significant volatility. Accordingly, the current global economic downturn has led to a significant decline in demand for our services, which has lowered our revenues and negatively affected our profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, our total revenues decreased by $18.0 million. We anticipate that recovery of demand for our services will lag an improvement in economic conditions. We cannot predict how severe or prolonged the global economic downturn will be. Furthermore, current global economic conditions have significantly impacted consumer confidence and behavior and, as a result, historical marketing information that we have collected may be less effective as a means of predicting future demand and operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues at the same rate at which they have recently declined, even after the current downturn ends. An extended period of economic weakness would likely have a further adverse impact on our revenues, and financial position, and we my be unable to fund continued operations or meet our financial obligations. The airline industry is unpredictable. The airline industry has experienced tremendous challenges in recent years and will likely remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Among other factors, the financial challenges faced by major carriers, including Delta Airlines, United Airlines and Northwest Airlines, and increased hostilities in the Middle East and other regions have significantly affected, and are likely to continue to affect, the U.S. airline industry. These conditions have resulted in declines and shifts in passenger demand, increased insurance costs, volatile fuel prices, increased government regulations and tightened credit markets, all of which have affected, and will continue to affect, the operations and financial condition of participants in the industry, including us, major carriers (including our code share partners), competitors and aircraft manufacturers. These industry developments raise substantial risks and uncertainties which will affect us, major carriers (including our code share partners), competitors and aircraft manufacturers in ways that we currently are unable to predict. The airline industry is subject to the impact of terrorist activities or warnings. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and their aftermath negatively impacted the airline industry in general, including our operations. In particular, the primary effects experienced by the airline industry included a substantial loss of passenger traffic and revenue. While airline passenger traffic and revenue have recovered since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, additional terrorist attacks could have a similar or even more pronounced effect. Even if additional terrorist attacks are not launched against the airline industry, there will be lasting consequences of the September 11, 2001 attacks, including increased security and insurance costs, increased concerns about future terrorist attacks, increased government regulation and airport delays due to heightened security. Additional terrorist attacks or warnings of such attacks, and increased hostilities or prolonged military involvement in the Middle East or other regions, could negatively impact the airline industry, and result in decreased passenger traffic and yields, increased flight delays or cancellations associated with new government mandates, as well as increased security, fuel and other costs. There can be no assurance that these events will not harm the airline industry generally or our operations or financial condition in particular. 14 Our operations may be adversely impacted by increased security measures mandated by regulatory authorities. Because of significantly higher security and other costs incurred by airports since September 11, 2001, many airports significantly increased their rates and charges to air carriers, including us, and may do so again in the future. On November 19, 2001, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, also referred to as the Aviation Security Act. This law federalized substantially all aspects of civil aviation security and created the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”) to which the security responsibilities previously held by the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) were transitioned. The TSA is an agency of the Department of Homeland Security. The Department of Homeland Security and the TSA and other agencies within the Department of Homeland Security have implemented numerous security measures, including the passing of the Aviation Security Act, that affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. The Department of Homeland Security has announced greater use of passenger data for evaluating security measures to be taken with respect to individual passengers, expanded use of federal air marshals on flights (thus displacing revenue passengers), investigating a requirement to install aircraft security systems (such as active devices on commercial aircraft as countermeasures against portable surface to air missiles) and expanded cargo and baggage screening. Funding for airline and airport security required under the Aviation Security Act is provided in part by a $2.50 per segment passenger security fee for flights departing from the U.S., subject to a $10 per roundtrip cap; however, airlines are responsible for costs incurred to meet security requirements beyond those provided by the TSA. There is no assurance this fee will not be raised in the future as the TSA’s costs exceed the revenue it receives from these fees. We could also be adversely affected by any implementation of stricter security measures by the Bahamian government. Fees paid to the TSA are approximately 9 months in arrears which could adversely impact the airline due to a suspension or revocation of the airlines eligibility for licenses, permits, or privileges. We cannot provide assurance that additional security requirements or security-related fees enacted in the future will not adversely affect us financially. The airline industry is heavily regulated. All interstate airlines are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation (the “DOT”), the FAA and other governmental agencies. Regulations promulgated by the DOT primarily relate to economic aspects of air service. The FAA requires operating, air worthiness and other certificates; approval of personnel who may engage in flight, maintenance or operation activities; record keeping procedures in accordance with FAA requirements; and FAA approval of flight training and retraining programs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time-consuming inspections of, or maintenance on, all or any of our aircraft for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as our aircraft, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our aircraft at any airport at which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Because we operate only one type of aircraft and have our operations centered at Fort Lauderdale Airport, we are particularly susceptible to any such limitations. The FAA may change its method of collecting revenues. The FAA funds its operations largely through a tax levied on all users of the system based on ticket sales as well as a tax on fuel. As the airline industry changes, the trust fund that provides funding for the FAA’s capital accounts and all or some portion of its operations has experienced an increase in its costs without a corresponding rise in its revenue such that in its fiscal 2004, the FAA’s costs exceeded its revenues by more than $4 billion. Further, the existing authority for the current FAA taxing system expired on September 30, 2007. After almost two years of short-term extensions and continuing resolutions, the Subcommittee on Aviation of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure is presently conducting hearings concerning the FAA. The committee is hoping to have a long-term funding law in place this year. At times during this reauthorization process, eliminating or amending the current tax system and implementing user fees have been discussed that could cause us to incur potentially significant additional expenses. There can be no assurance that the final version of the FAA reauthorization bill would exempt small commercial aircraft such as those operated by Gulfstream from these new charges. If such a user fee or tax rate increase is implemented, we may not be able to pass this increased expense on to our customers. Such an expense could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business. 15 A Senate draft version of the FAA Reauthorization Bill has proposed a $25 per-flight fee be charged on all flights, regardless of aircraft size. The recently passed House version of the Bill does not include such a fee. The airline industry is characterized by low profit margins and high fixed costs. The airline industry is characterized generally by low profit margins and high fixed costs, primarily for personnel, debt service and rent. The expenses of an aircraft flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried and, as a result, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing could have a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results. Accordingly, a minor shortfall in our expected revenue levels could harm our business. The airline industry is highly competitive. In general, the airline industry is highly competitive. Gulfstream not only competes with other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or operated as code share partners of major airlines, but we also face competition from low cost carriers and network airlines on many of our routes. One of our primary competitors in the Bahamas market, Bahamasair, is owned by the government of the Bahamas and receives substantial subsidies to fund operating losses. The receipt of these subsidies may reduce the airline’s requirement to take necessary actions to improve profitability, including raising prices to offset fuel costs. Gulfstream also competes with alternative forms of transportation, such as charter aircraft, automobiles, commercial and private boats and trains. Barriers to entry in most of Gulfstream’s markets are limited, and some of its competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Risks Related To Our Business We have substantial fixed obligations. As of December 31, 2009, we had $6.3 million of long-term debt and related warrant liabilities. In addition, we have lease payments of approximately $5.7 million per year on our fleet of 23 B1900D aircraft, as well as restructured creditor obligations of $4.2 million for the return of engines borrowed from the lessor, and other matters, payable over the next several years. On February 11, 2010, the Company received a notice of default (the “Default Notice”) from Raytheon Aircraft Credit Corporation (“RACC”), the Company’s principal aircraft lessor, pursuant to which RACC notified the Company that the Company is in default of the payment of certain obligations under Airliner Operating Lease Agreements, each dated August 7, 2003, and amended on August 2, 2005, and March 15, 2006 (the “Lease Agreements”), by and between the Company and RACC, pursuant to which the Company currently leases from RACC twenty-one (21) Beech 1900D Airliners. The default resulted as a result of the Company’s failure to make its scheduled lease payments for the month of February. Accordingly, RACC demanded that the Company make such payments on or before February 19, 2010. The failure to make such payment would have given RACC the right to terminate the Lease Agreements, thereby prohibiting the Company from using such airplanes. Also pursuant to the Default Notice, RACC claimed that the Company is in default in make certain other payments under a separate agreement dated as of December 19, 2008 by and the Company and RACC (the “December Agreement”), which defaults are also considered to be defaults under the Lease Agreements. RACC indicated in the Default Notice that if the Company made the required payments under the Lease Agreements by February 19, 2010, it is prepared to discuss the manner in which the Company can cure or otherwise address the December Agreement defaults. On February 19, 2010, the Company made the required payment to RACC which allowed it to continue operating the airplanes covered by the Lease Agreements. In addition, on February 19, 2010, RACC advised the Company that it would forebear from exercising any of its rights under the December Agreement or the Lease Agreements, provided, that the Company remains current in payment of future lease payments and provides RACC over the next two months with a mutually acceptable debt and financial restructuring plan that provides for a feasible basis to enable the Company to continue to meet its ongoing financial obligations under the Lease Agreement and commence to repay amounts due under the December Agreement. Although the Company believes that it will be able to establish a plan that is acceptable to RACC, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so, or will not otherwise default in future payments under the Lease Agreements. 16 On February 26, 2010, the Company and Shelter Island entered into a Forbearance Agreement and Amendment to Debenture (the “Forbearance Agreement”) which reduced the Company’s potential liability under the put option from $3,000,000 to $1,050,000 and rescheduled certain principal and interest payments under the Debenture (as defined below) to reduce near-term liquidity requirements. Under the terms of Forbearance Agreement, Shelter Island agreed to forbear from exercising its rights and remedies under the Shelter Island Agreement until the occurrence of (a) the failure by the Company to comply with the terms, covenants and agreements of the Forbearance Agreement; and (b) the occurrence of any event of default under the Debenture or the Shelter Island Purchase Agreement (collectively, a “Termination Event”). One of the covenants to be performed by the Company under the Forbearance Agreement is the obligation of the Company to raise an additional $1.5 million of debt or equity financing by March 26, 2010, subsequently changed to March 31, 2010, or otherwise satisfy Shelter Island that the Company has adequate liquidity and working capital. Shelter Island confirmed on March 31, 2010 that the Company complied with this covenant based primarily on the first closing under a Series A Convertible Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to the Forbearance Agreement the parties amended the Debenture, as follows (i) the Company shall pay interest on the outstanding principal amount monthly in cash, commencing March 31, 2010; (ii) the Company shall pay monthly installments on the outstanding principal amount commencing April 30, 2010 and on the last trading day of each month thereafter until the August 31, 2011 maturity date of the Debenture; and (iii) the Company may prepay all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount of the Debenture together with a premium equal to 5% of outstanding principal amount being prepaid; provided that, if such prepayment is made in 2011, there shall be no premium applicable. The Company, each of its subsidiaries and Shelter Island also entered into an Omnibus Amendment to the Guaranty Agreements pursuant to which, without limitation, the parties agreed to amend the existing guarantees to include the repayment of the Shelter Island Note (see below). Shelter Island currently holds a first priority lien and security interest on all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. Under the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, Shelter Island agreed to subordinate its first priority lien on the accounts receivable of the Company and its subsidiaries and the proceeds thereof, to the lien granted to the Investors under the Security Agreement with TBI to the extent of the deferred principal and accrued interest under the Notes. Shelter Island retained its first priority security interest in all of the other assets and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries. As consideration for its financial accommodations, the Company paid Shelter Island an additional $250,000 as a forbearance fee, by delivering a $250,000 promissory note (the “Shelter Island Note”) due on the earlier of (i) August 31, 2011, and (ii) the date the Debenture is permitted or required to be paid in accordance with its terms. The Shelter Island Note accrues interest at a rate of 9% per annum and is payable in cash on a monthly basis beginning on February 26, 2011. The Shelter Island Agreement contains Events of Default, which if not waived by the lender, would entitle the lender to accelerate the due date of the Senior Debenture. See Note 20 “Subsequent Events”. The company anticipates not achieving the “minimum quarterly EBITDA” Events of Default and therefore at December 31, 2009, the Company classified all future debenture payments as a short term balance sheet liability. Although the Company believes that its revenues and liquidity will improve, the Company is also actively seeking short-term debt financing to meet its near-term liquidity requirements and to allow sufficient time to increase its equity capital base to support long-term growth opportunities. The Company has received non-binding proposals for additional debt financing which it is seeking to consummate. In addition, the Company has engaged an investment banking firm to assist the Company in connection with equity financing efforts. These near-term financing transactions and payment deferrals are essential due to our current liquidity level and several additional factors, including a seasonal business slowdown that is typical in September and October, the ongoing risk posed by a relatively weak economy, the potential for continued volatility in the price of jet fuel, a negotiated settlement of the civil penalty proposed by the Federal Aviation Administration, and scheduled repayments of debt and restructured creditor obligations over the next two years. We can make no assurance that our near-term efforts to improve liquidity or to obtain a longer-term growth-oriented equity financing will be completed successfully, or that alternative sources of capital will be available under terms acceptable to us, or at all. If an additional financing is not completed in the near-term, we would experience an immediate and significant liquidity shortfall, and would be unable to fund operations or meet our financial obligations. 17 Our debentures and warrants create additional risks and obligations. In September 2008, we consummated a financing in which we issued debentures for $5.1 million (the “Senior Debentures”) and warrants to purchase 578,870 shares of common stock (the “Senior Warrants”) to Shelter Island Opportunity Fund, LLC. As a result of this financing, we face additional risks and uncertainties, including those relating to the floating interest rate on the Senior Debentures, the financial covenants of the Senior Debentures, the repayment of the Senior Debentures and the repurchase of the Senior Warrants. The Senior Debentures bear interest at the higher of (i) a floating rate of prime plus 4% or (ii) a fixed rate of 11%. A significant increase in the prime rate could cause our interest expense to increase and might impair our ability to service this debt. In addition, the Senior Debentures subject the Company to certain covenants, (See Note 20 Subsequent Events) including covenants that we have (i) consolidated minimum quarterly EBITDA starting in the quarter ending December 31, 2008, (ii) six month EBITDA averages starting in the six months ending June 30, 2011, (iii) minimum monthly accounts receivable balance of $3.5 million, and (iv) minimum monthly cash balance of $750,000. If we are not able to comply with these covenants, we would be in default under the Senior Debentures and the holder could elect to accelerate our repayment obligation. On September 30, 2008, we were in violation of the covenant to maintain a minimum monthly accounts receivable balance of $3.5 million, with an accounts receivable balance on such date of $3.1 million. For the quarters ended December 31, 2008, and 2009, we were in violation of the covenant for consolidated minimum quarterly EBITDA. Shelter Island Opportunity Fund, LLC granted one-time waivers with respect to non-compliance with these financial covenants. The company anticipates not achieving the “minimum quarterly EBITDA” in future periods and therefore at December 31, 2009, the Company classified all future debenture payments as a current liability. On February 26, 2010, the Company and Shelter Island entered into a Forbearance Agreement and Amendment to Debenture (the “Forbearance Agreement”) which reduced the Company’s potential liability under the put option from $3,000,000 to $1,050,000 and rescheduled certain principal and interest payments under the Debenture (as defined below) to reduce near-term liquidity requirements. The Senior Debentures require monthly payments in accordance with the Forbearance Agreement of principal ranging from $25,000 to $250,000 beginning on April 30, 2010, with the remaining principal amount of $1,554,000 due upon maturity. In addition, the holder of the Senior Warrants may, at its option, require us to repurchase the common stock issued upon exercise of the warrant for $1,050,000 at any time after the earlier of the repayment in full of the Senior Debentures or September 2011, until August 2014. Under the terms of Forbearance Agreement, Shelter Island agreed to forbear from exercising its rights and remedies under the Shelter Island Agreement until the occurrence of (a) the failure by the Company to comply with the terms, covenants and agreements of the Forbearance Agreement; and (b) the occurrence of any event of default under the Debenture or the Shelter Island Purchase Agreement (collectively, a “Termination Event”). One of the covenants to be performed by the Company under the Forbearance Agreement is the obligation of the Company to raise an additional $1.5 million of debt or equity financing by March 26, 2010, subsequently changed to March 31, 2010, otherwise satisfy Shelter Island that the Company has adequate liquidity and working capital. Shelter Island confirmated on March 31, 2010 that the Company complied with this convenant based primarily on the first closing under a Series A Convertible Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to the Forbearance Agreement the parties amended the Debenture, as follows (i) the Company shall pay interest on the outstanding principal amount monthly in cash, commencing March 31, 2010; (ii) the Company shall pay monthly installments on the outstanding principal amount commencing April 30, 2010 and on the last trading day of each month thereafter until the August 31, 2011 maturity date of the Debenture; and (iii) the Company may prepay all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount of the Debenture together with a premium equal to 5% of outstanding principal amount being prepaid; provided that, if such prepayment is made in 2011, there shall be no premium applicable. The Company, each of its subsidiaries and Shelter Island also entered into an Omnibus Amendment to the Guaranty Agreements pursuant to which, without limitation, the parties agreed to amend the existing guarantees to include the repayment of the Shelter Island Note. Shelter Island currently holds a first priority lien and security interest on all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. Under the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, Shelter Island agreed to subordinate its first priority lien on the accounts receivable of the Company and its subsidiaries and the proceeds thereof, to the lien granted to the Investors under the Security Agreement with TBI to the extent of the deferred principal and accrued interest under the Notes. Shelter Island retained its first priority security interest in all of the other assets and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries. 18 As contemplated in the original warrant to purchase Common Stock issued to Shelter Island on August 31, 2008 (the “Original Warrant”), on February 26, 2010 the Company divided the Original Warrant into (a) a warrant in the form of the Original Warrant initially exercisable into 70,000 shares of Common Stock (the “Put Warrant”); and (b) a warrant in the form of the Original Warrant (the “Remaining Warrant”, and together with the Put Warrant, the "Divided Warrants") such that the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock of Company that are initially exercisable under the Divided Warrants (inclusive of the 70,000 Shares of Common Stock initially issuable under the Put Warrant) shall equal, in the aggregate, 15% of the fully-diluted shares of Company Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately following consummation of the transactions contemplated under the Forbearance Agreement and the Purchase Agreements, after giving pro-forma effect to the conversion into Common Stock of all Company convertible securities and the exercise of all Company options and warrants, including the Warrants issued to the Investors. As a result of consummation of the above transactions with Shelter Island and the TBI Investors, the aggregate number of shares issuable upon conversion of the Divided Warrant is 914,189 shares of Company Common Stock. The Company and Shelter Island also entered into an Amendment to the Put Option Agreement (the “Put Option Amendment”) dated as of August 31, 2008 under which, among other things, the exercise price applicable for all the put shares under the put option was reduced from $3,000,000 to $1,050,000, or $15.00 per share. As consideration for its financial accommodations, the Company paid Shelter Island an additional $250,000 as a forbearance fee, by delivering a $250,000 promissory note (the “Shelter Island Note”) due on the earlier of (i) August 31, 2011, and (ii) the date the Debenture is permitted or required to be paid in accordance with its terms. The Shelter Island Note accrues interest at a rate of 9% per annum and is payable in cash on a monthly basis beginning on February 26, 2011. The Senior Debentures and the repurchase obligation associated with the Senior Warrants represent significant obligations for us and we may not be able to make all of the required payments. We may not have sufficient liquidity to make such payments or repurchase, or such payments or repurchase may significantly impair our liquidity. On October 7, 2009, we entered into a Note Purchase Agreement with Gulfstream Funding II, LLC, pursuant to which we borrowed approximately $1.5 million on a subordinated basis. The interest rate on the loans is 12% per annum. The outstanding principal amount and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon are due on or prior to January 15, 2010. On January 15, 2010, the Company and the Lender agreed to enter into one or more definitive agreements to extend the maturity date of the Note and to provide for the conversion of the outstanding principal amount of the Note and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon (collectively, the “Debt”) into preferred stock of the Company at current market prices. These loans represent significant obligations for us and we may not be able to make all of the required payments. We may not have sufficient liquidity to make such payments, or such payments may significantly impair our liquidity. We would be adversely affected by the loss of key personnel. Our success is dependent upon the continued services of our management team. Our executives have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The loss of one of our executives or any other key employees (including the senior management team of the Airline and the Academy) could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on our management team. Expansion of operations could result in operating losses. We are actively seeking opportunities to grow by adding new routes, aircraft, alliance partners, or by acquiring other regional airlines. These opportunities will likely include operating in areas away from our current Florida base. For example, we redeployed certain assets to profitable routes by initiating service in September 2008 between Continental’s Cleveland hub and five smaller cities in Pennsylvania, New York and West Virginia in conjunction with Essential Air Service routes awarded by the Department of Transportation. Similar material increases in the scope or scale of our operations could lead to integration difficulties, which could result in short and/or long-term operating losses. 19 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and, as a result, our business could be harmed and current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in us, which could cause our stock price to fall. We are required to perform the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Auditor attestation requirements of management’s assessment will first apply to us for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. As a result, we expect to incur substantial additional expenses and diversion of management’s time. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or their effect on our operations since there is limited precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the NYSE Amex. Any such action could harm our business or investors’ confidence in us, and could cause our stock price to fall. Risks Related To Gulfstream Gulfstream is dependent on our code share relationships. Gulfstream depends on relationships created by code share agreements with Continental, and United for a significant portion of our revenues. Additionally, virtually all of our “local,” or non-connecting, traffic is booked through Continental’s reservation system. Any material modification to, or termination of, our code share agreements with any of these partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of operations. Each of the code share agreements contains a number of grounds for termination by our partners, including failure to meet specified performance levels. Further, these agreements limit our ability to enter into code share agreements with other airlines. Gulfstream’s code share partners may expand their direct operation of regional jets, thus limiting the expansion of our relationships with them. A decision by any of Gulfstream’s code share partners to phase out Gulfstream’s contract-based code share relationships or enter into similar agreements with one or more of Gulfstream’s competitors could have a material adverse effect on Gulfstream’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Also, our code share partners may be restricted in increasing the level of business that they conduct with Gulfstream, thereby limiting our growth. Union scope clauses at major airlines may limit or prohibit certain types of code share operations, including those by Gulfstream. Gulfstream is dependent on the financial strength of our code share partners. Gulfstream is directly affected by the financial and operating strength of its code share partners. In the event of a decrease in the financial or operational strength of any of the code share partners, such partner may be unable to make the payments due to Gulfstream under the code share agreement. It is possible that if any of the code share partners file for bankruptcy, Gulfstream’s code share agreement with such partner may not be assumed in bankruptcy and could be modified or terminated. United Airlines, has recently emerged from Chapter 11 reorganization. There was no impact to the code share agreement as a result of this reorganization. We operate our code share relationships as revenue-sharing arrangements. Under the revenue sharing, or pro rate, arrangements that we have in place with our code share partners, we bear substantially all costs associated with our flights. Because we are responsible for such costs, factors such as rising fuel costs, increases in operating expenses and decreases in ticket prices or passenger loads could cause our profits to decrease and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The availability of additional and/or replacement code share partners is limited and airline strategic consolidations could have an impact on operations in ways yet to be determined. The airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, including the recent merger of Delta Airlines and Northwest, and it may in the future undergo additional consolidation. Other developments include domestic and international code share alliances between major carriers, such as the “SkyTeam Alliance,” that currently includes Delta Airlines, Continental and Northwest, among others, and the “Star Alliance,” that currently includes United Airlines and US Airways, among others, and which Continental joined effective in October 2009. Any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could limit the number of potential partners with whom Gulfstream could enter into code share relationships and materially adversely affect our relationship with our current code share partners. 20 There is no assurance that our relationship with our code share partners would survive in the event that any such code share partner merges with another airline. Similarly, the bankruptcy or reorganization of one or more of our competitors may result in rapid changes to the identity of our competitors in particular markets, a substantial reduction in the operating costs of our competitors or the entry of new competitors into some or all of the markets we serve. We are unable to predict exactly what effect, if any, changes in the strategic landscape might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are constraints on our ability to establish new operations to provide airline service to major airlines other than our code share partners. Our code share agreement with Continental requires that we seek their consent prior to establishing new code share agreements, subject to limited exceptions, as well as prior to acquiring another regional carrier. In the absence of such consent, we would have to establish a new operating subsidiary, separate from Gulfstream, which would require a substantial expenditure of management time and Company resources. Fluctuations in fuel costs could adversely affect our operating expenses and results. Aircraft fuel consumes a significant portion of our airline revenue (29.6% for 2008 and 16.3% for 2009). The price of aircraft fuel is unpredictable and has increased significantly in recent periods based on events outside of our control, including geopolitical developments, regional production patterns, environmental concerns and financial speculation. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of aircraft fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. We cannot assure you increases in the price of fuel can be offset by higher revenue. We carry limited fuel inventory and we rely heavily on our fuel suppliers. We cannot assure you we will always have access to adequate supplies of fuel in the event of shortages or other disruptions in the fuel supply. Price escalations or reductions in the supply of aircraft fuel will increase our operating expenses and could cause our operating results and net income to decline. Additionally, price escalations or reductions in the supply of aircraft fuel could result in the curtailment of our service. Some of our competitors may be better positioned to obtain fuel in the event of a shortage. Our business is subject to substantial seasonal and cyclical volatility. Gulfstream’s business is subject to substantial seasonality, primarily due to leisure and holiday travel patterns, particularly in the Bahamas. Traditionally, we experience the strongest demand from February to July, and the weakest demand from August to October, during which period we typically suffer operating losses. As a result, our operating results for a quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Our results of operations generally reflect this seasonality. Our operating results are also impacted by numerous other cycles and factors that are not necessarily seasonal. These factors include the extent and nature of fare changes and competition from other airlines, changing levels of operations, national and international events, fuel prices and general economic conditions, including inflation. Because a substantial portion of both personal and business airline travel is discretionary, the industry tends to experience adverse financial results in general economic downturns. 21 Any inability to acquire and maintain additional compatible aircraft or engines would increase our operating costs and could harm our profitability. Our fleet currently consists of 23 B1900D turboprop aircraft, each equipped with two engines. Although our management believes there is an adequate supply of such aircraft and engines available at reasonable prices and terms to meet our current needs, we are unable to predict how long these conditions will continue. Any increase in demand for these aircraft or engines could restrict our ability to obtain additional aircraft, engines and spare parts. Because the aircraft we operate are not in active production, we may be unable to obtain additional suitable aircraft, engines or spare parts on satisfactory terms or at the time needed for our operations or for the implementation of our growth plan. Further, as fuel costs increase or remain at elevated levels, the demand for highly fuel-efficient turboprop aircraft may also increase. This increase in demand could cause a shortage in the supply of reasonably priced turboprop aircraft. Such a decrease could adversely affect our ability to expand our fleet or to replace outdated aircraft, which in turn could hinder our growth or reduce our revenues. Maintenance expenses for Gulfstream’s fleet could increase. Gulfstream’s fleet consists of aircraft that were delivered from 1994 to 1996. As the age of our aircraft increases, additional resources may be required to sustain their reliability levels. There can be no assurance that such additional resources will not be material. Any inability to extend the lease terms of our existing aircraft or obtain financing for additional aircraft could adversely affect our operations. We finance our aircraft through operating lease financing. Most of our existing fleet of B1900Ds is leased from the manufacturer pursuant to lease agreements that expires in 2010. We have the option to extend the leases for up to 15 aircraft from six to 24 months after the expiration period; however, there can be no assurance that this lease agreement can be extended further on reasonable terms. If we are unable to extend these leases, we also have the option to purchase up to 21 of these aircraft; however, we may not be able to secure financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Further, the B1900D is not currently produced by their manufacturers and there is currently a limited supply of these aircraft. If we are unable to obtain replacement aircraft on economically reasonable terms, our business could be materially adversely affected. The airline industry has been subject to a number of strikes which could adversely affect our business. The airline industry has been negatively impacted by a number of labor strikes. Any new collective bargaining agreement entered into by other regional carriers may result in higher industry wages and add increased pressure on Gulfstream to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Furthermore, since each of Gulfstream’s code share partners is a significant source of revenue, any labor disruption or labor strike by the employees of any one of Gulfstream’s code share partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Competitors or new market entrants may introduce smaller aircraft or direct hub flights, which could reduce our competitive advantage. We operate relatively small aircraft on short flight routes, which enables us to maintain a low cost structure, giving us a competitive advantage over other airlines. If new market entrants or existing competitors were to introduce smaller aircraft into the marketplace, their costs may be lower than ours, allowing them to gain a competitive advantage. In addition, competitors could introduce new direct flights from their hubs to our key cities which could reduce the competitiveness of our Florida connecting points. Gulfstream flies and depends upon only one aircraft type, and would be adversely affected if the FAA were to ground our fleet. Gulfstream’s fleet consists of 23 B1900D turboprop aircraft. The FAA requires operating, air worthiness and other certificates; approval of personnel who may engage in flight, maintenance or operation activities; record keeping procedures in accordance with FAA requirements; and FAA approval of flight training and retraining programs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. A decision by the FAA to ground or require additional time-consuming inspections of or maintenance on the B1900D aircraft for any reason may have a material adverse effect on the operations of Gulfstream. 22 Gulfstream is at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving our aircraft. While Gulfstream has never had a fatal crash over our history, it is possible that one or more of our aircraft may crash or be involved in an accident in the future, causing death or injury to individual air travelers and our employees and destroying the aircraft. An accident or incident involving one of Gulfstream’s aircraft could involve significant potential claims of injured passengers and others, as well as repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and our consequential temporary or permanent loss of service. In the event of an accident, our liability insurance may not be adequate to offset the exposure to potential claims and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from the accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage would harm our operational and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that Gulfstream’s operations are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which could result in a material reduction in passenger revenues. If Gulfstream is forced to relocate our Fort Lauderdale maintenance base, we may not be able to operate as successfully. The lease for Gulfstream’s principal maintenance facility, located at Hollywood-Fort Lauderdale International Airport (FLL), expires at the end of May 2010. We are presently in negotiations with Broward County for a lease at a nearby existing site at FLL. Broward County has been considering for some time an improvement to FLL that will eventually result in a teardown of Gulfstream’s maintenance hangar and require Gulfstream to seek an alternate location for a successor maintenance hangar on the airfield. If Gulfstream is forced to relocate its Fort Lauderdale maintenance operations, it may be prohibitively expensive to relocate and/or construct a maintenance hangar. Gulfstream may not be able to operate as efficiently or successfully from any other location. In addition, it is possible that Gulfstream would be unable to secure a suitable alternative location for our maintenance hangar. Were this to occur, we may be forced to outsource our airplane maintenance for a period of time, which would substantially increase our maintenance costs and cause us significant operational disruptions. Hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions could adversely affect Gulfstream’s business. Our routes in Florida and the Bahamas are particularly susceptible to the impact of hurricanes. In the event that a hurricane threatened one of our departure locations, we may be forced to cancel flights and/or relocate our fleet, either of which would cause us to lose revenues. Related storm damage could also affect telecommunications capability, causing interruptions to our operations. A hurricane could cause markets such as the Florida Keys and the Bahamas to sustain severe damage to their tourist destinations and thus cause a longer-term decrease in the number of persons traveling on our routes. Additionally, during periods of fog, ice, low temperatures, hurricanes, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. A significant interruption or disruption in service due to adverse weather or otherwise, could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of Gulfstream’s flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, operations and financial performance. Gulfstream may experience labor disruptions or an increase in labor costs. All of Gulfstream’s permanent pilots are represented by International Brotherhood of Teamsters Airline Division Local 747, commonly known as the Teamsters. Our collective bargaining agreement with our pilots became subject to amendment in July 2009 and negotiations are currently in process. Although we have never had a work interruption or stoppage and we believe our relations with our union and non-union employees are generally good, Gulfstream is subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or may incur additional administrative expenses associated with union representation of our employees. Any sustained work stoppages could adversely affect Gulfstream’s ability to fulfill our obligations under our code share agreements and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. Our labor costs constitute approximately 27% of our 2009 total operating costs. Any new collective bargaining agreements entered into by other airlines may also result in higher industry wages and increased pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Future agreements with our employees’ unions may be on terms that are not economically as attractive as our current agreements nor comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors. Any future agreements may increase our labor costs or otherwise adversely affect us. Additionally, we cannot assure you that the compensation rates that we have assumed will correctly reflect the market for our non-union employees, or that there will not be future unionization of our currently nonunionized groups, which could adversely affect our costs. 23 Our business is heavily dependent on the Bahamas markets and a reduction in demand for air travel to this market would harm our business. Almost half of our scheduled flights have the Bahamas as either their destination or origin and our revenue is linked primarily to the number of tourists and other passengers traveling to and from the Bahamas. Bahamian tourism levels are affected by, among other things, the political and economic climate in the Bahamas’ main tourism markets, the availability of hotel accommodations, promotional spending by competing destinations, the popularity of the Bahamas as a tourist destination relative to other vacation options, and other global factors, including natural disasters or negative publicity due to safety and security. No assurance can be given that the level of passenger traffic to the Bahamas will not decline in the future. A decline in the level of Bahamas passenger traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The current regulation of travel to Cuba is subject to political conditions and a change in the current restrictions could impair our ability to provide flights or minimize our competitive advantage. Pursuant to a services agreement that we have entered into with GAC, we may provide the use of our aircraft, flight crews and other services to GAC for its operation of charter flights to Cuba, in exchange for which we receive 75% of the operating profit generated by such charter flights. GAC’s flights to Cuba depend on political conditions prevailing from time to time in Cuba and the United States. Currently, GAC is one of a limited number of operators who provide flights from the United States to Cuba. If relations between the United States and Cuba worsen, these flights may be prohibited entirely and we may lose significant revenues due to GAC’s inability to operate these flights. Conversely, if relations between the United States and Cuba significantly improve, demand for access to Cuba could increase dramatically, causing the market for flights from the United States to Cuba to be flooded with new entrants. In either scenario, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected. Our business operations in Cuba are subject to a number of U.S. federal laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and the Commerce Department. The FCPA is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials or parties and requires public companies in the United States to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect those companies’ transactions. OFAC and the Commerce Department administer and enforce economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals, including Cuba. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm, incarceration of our employees or restrictions on our operation of flights to and from Cuba. These restrictions could increase our costs of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support our growth. Cuba’s status as a state sponsor of terrorism could impact the sustainability and growth of the Company’s flights to Cuba. Cuba is listed as a state sponsor of terrorism by the U.S. Department of State, and as such, GAC’s flights to Cuba are subject to any restrictions that may be imposed as a result of such designation. GAC could be subjected to regulations and requirements that could increase its costs of operating flights to Cuba, restrict the number or manner of flights it operates to Cuba or prohibit such flights entirely. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected by further restrictions, or prohibitions, on doing business in Cuba as a country designated as a state sponsor of terrorism. We rely on third parties to provide us with facilities and services that are integral to our business and can be withdrawn on short notice. We have entered into agreements with third-party contractors, including other airlines, to provide certain facilities and services required for our operations, such as certain maintenance, ground handling, baggage services and ticket counter space. We will likely need to enter into similar agreements in any new markets we decide to serve. All of these agreements are subject to termination upon short notice. The loss or expiration of these contracts, the loss of FAA certification by our outside maintenance providers or any inability to renew our contracts or negotiate contracts with other providers at comparable rates could harm our business. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on our behalf also gives us less control over costs and over the efficiency, timeliness and quality of contract services. 24 Aviation insurance is a critical safeguard of our financial condition and it might become difficult to obtain adequate insurance at a reasonable rate in the future. We believe that our insurance policies are of types customary in the industry and in amounts we believe are adequate to protect us against material loss. It is possible, however, that the amount of insurance we carry will not be sufficient to protect us from material loss. Some aviation insurance could become unavailable, available only for reduced amounts of coverage, or available only at substantially higher rates, which could result in our failing to comply with the levels of insurance coverage required by our code share agreements, our other contractual agreements or applicable government regulations. Additionally, war risk coverage or other insurance might cease to be available to our vendors or might only be available for reduced amounts of coverage. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of our business could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business. In the normal course of our business, we are often involved in various legal proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If any of these proceedings were to be determined adversely to us or a settlement involving a payment of a material sum of money were to occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we could become the subject of future claims by third parties, our employees, our investors or regulators. Any significant adverse litigation judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. Risks Related To the Academy A decrease in demand for regional airline pilots could adversely impact the Academy’s ability to attract and retain students. We believe that the employment of our graduates is essential to our ability to attract and retain students. In the event that regional airline industry demand for pilots decreases significantly, it would have a detrimental impact on the ability of our graduates to gain employment, which could have an adverse effect on enrollment. The value of the Academy could be diminished if other airlines lower their required minimum flight hours. Academy students are pilots who hold commercial, multi-engine and instrument ratings who are qualified to operate commercial flights but who seek to enhance their marketability by logging additional training and flight hours. The Academy offers pilots the opportunity to log flight hours more quickly than the traditional time-building method of flight instructing. If the airlines who hire Academy graduates were to reduce the number of logged hours that they require new pilots to have, the value of the Academy could be diminished and the Academy could suffer decreased enrollment and a loss of revenues. The inability to finance tuition costs could adversely affect the Academy’s enrollment. Most of our students depend upon some form of third-party financing to finance part or all of the cost of tuition. This type of financing is only available from limited sources. The inability of prospective students to obtain third-party financing could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. Workplace error by graduates of the Academy could expose us to legal action. Many of the pilots that graduate from the Academy are ultimately employed by airlines other than Gulfstream. In the event of an accident caused by one of the graduates of the Academy, it is possible that the Academy could be named as a defendant in any lawsuit that may arise. There can be no assurance that our insurance policy will be adequate to cover the potential losses from any such claims. 25 Risks Related To Our Common Stock We do not pay cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and do not have current plans to do so. Instead, we will likely retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will likely be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. As described in “Description of Capital Stock — Anti-Takeover Provisions of Delaware Law and Charter Provisions”, these provisions may: · discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management; · adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock; and · limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Reports published by securities or industry analysts, including projections in those reports that exceed our actual results, could adversely affect our stock price and trading volume. We currently expect securities research analysts, including those affiliated with our underwriters, will establish and publish their own quarterly projections for our business. These projections may vary widely from one another and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if our actual results do not match securities research analysts’ projections. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who writes reports on us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, our stock price or trading volume could decline. While we expect securities research analyst coverage, if no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock and the trading volume could decline. The issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock will dilute our current stockholders and may depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise capital. As a result of issuing the Senior Warrants and the Junior Warrants in September 2008, we may be required to issue an additional 1,999,606 shares of our common stock, representing 31.6% of the outstanding equity as of April 14, 2010. This is in addition to the October 2009 conversion of the Junior Debentures into 578,342 shares of our common stock. Further, both the Senior and Junior Warrants include adjustment provisions that could require us to issue a greater number of shares under certain circumstances. The shares issued upon exercise of the Senior and Junior Warrants represent a significant percentage of our presently outstanding common stock and the issuance of such shares would result in dilution to our current stockholders and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Potential investors could be prohibited from investing, or choose not to invest, in our common stock because we provide services to a company that operates flights to Cuba. Cuba has been identified as a state sponsor of terrorism by the U.S. Department of State. Some potential investors, including certain pension funds or trust funds, may be prohibited from investing, or may choose not to invest, in companies that do business with or in countries designated as sponsors of terrorism. Additionally, unrestricted potential investors may choose not to invest in our common stock based solely or in part on the fact that we provide services to GAC, a company that operates flights to Cuba. The exclusion of such investors may limit the market for shares of our common stock or negatively impact the further development of an active trading market for our common stock. Our common stock has only been publicly traded for a short period of time, and the price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially, possibly resulting in class action securities litigation. Before our initial public offering in December 2007, there had been no public market for shares of our common stock. For the last three months, the average daily trading volume of our common stock has been approximately 11,000 shares. An active public trading market may not develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. 26 The stock market in general and airlines in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the underlying businesses. In addition, the airline industry recently experienced a period of significant disruption characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, which led to increased volatility in securities prices and a significant level of intervention from the U.S. and other governments in securities markets. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to the risks described in this section, several factors that could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly include, among others, the following: · quarterly variations in our operating results compared to market expectations; · announcements of new services or products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors; · size of the public float; · stock price performance of our competitors; · fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; · default on our indebtedness or changes to our liquidity; · changes in senior management or key personnel; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · negative earnings or other announcements by us or other airlines; · downgrades in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our competitors; · issuances of capital stock; and · global economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. Because of the low trading volume, our stock price is subject to greater volatility. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, reduce our profits, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our business. We are not in compliance with NYSE Amex continued listing standards. Our common stock is listed for trading on the NYSE Amex, which is the successor to the American Stock Exchange (the “Exchange”). The Exchange requires listed companies to meet certain continued listing standards. These standards include specified minimum stockholders equity thresholds when an issuer sustains net losses over a number of years. We have not met the threshold set forth in Section 1003(a) of the Exchange’s Company Guide because, for the 2008 fiscal year, we have stockholder’s equity of less than $2 million and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two out of our three most recent fiscal years. As a result, we have received a notice from the Exchange that we have not met this continued listing requirement. The NYSE Amex staff has accepted the plan that we submitted to achieve and sustain compliance with all of the NYSE Amex’s listing requirements (the “Plan”), including a time frame for regaining compliance with Section 1003(a)(i) of the Company Guide within 18 months or by November 12, 2010 (the “Plan Period”). We will be able to continue our listing during the Plan Period, during which time we will be subject to periodic review to determine if we are making progress consistent with the Plan. If we are not in compliance with all the continued listing standards of the NYSE Amex Company Guide by November 12, 2010, or if we do not make progress consistent with the Plan during the Plan Period, we may be subject to delisting proceedings. We may appeal a Staff determination to initiate delisting proceedings. As part of our efforts to achieve and sustain compliance with the Plan, we agreed to convert the Junior Debentures to common stock at a reduced conversion price of $1.975 per share. This was approved by our stockholders on October 20, 2009. In the event our common stock was delisted by the Exchange, we would be in breach of a covenant of our loan and security agreement with Shelter Island Opportunity Fund, LLC, and, in the absence of a waiver, the maturity of our secured original issue discount debenture could be accelerated. 27 The liability of our officers and directors is limited. Our certificate of incorporation limits the liability of directors to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that directors of a corporation will not be personally liable for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as directors, except liability for: · any breach of their duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders; · acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; · unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; or · any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. This limitation of liability does not apply to liabilities arising under the federal securities laws and does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also provide that we will indemnify our directors, officers, employees and agents for damages arising in connection with their actions in such capacities, subject to certain limitations as set forth in the bylaws. There is no pending litigation or proceeding involving any of our directors, officers, employees or agents where indemnification will be required or permitted. We are not aware of any pending or threatened litigation or proceeding that might result in a claim for indemnification. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 