Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risk factors should be read in connection with the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and US12OF’s financial statements and the related notes. Risks Associated With Investing Directly or Indirectly in Crude Oil Investing in Crude Oil Interests subjects US12OF to the risks of the crude oil industry and this could result in large fluctuations in the price of US12OF’s units. US12OF is subject to the risks and hazards of the crude oil industry because it invests in oil interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the oil industry may cause the price of oil to widely fluctuate. If the changes in percentage terms of US12OF’s units accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract or spot price of light, sweet crude oil, then the price of its units may also fluctuate. The risks of crude oil drilling and production activities include the following: · no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs may be found; · crude oil and natural gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled; · the ability of an oil producer to develop, produce and market reserves may be limited by: · title problems, · political conflicts, including war, · weather conditions, · compliance with governmental requirements, · refinery capacity, and · mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment; · decisions of the cartel of oil producing countries (e.g., OPEC), to produce more or less oil; · increases in oil production due to price rises may make it more economical to extract oil from additional sources and may later temper further oil price increases; and · economic activity of users, as certain economies expand, oil consumption increases (e.g., China, India) and as economies contract (in a recession or depression), oil demand and prices fall. The crude oil industry experiences numerous operating risks. These operating risks include the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. 42 Crude oil operations also are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local regulations that materially affect operations. Matters regulated include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling and abandonment bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells and pooling of properties and taxation. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production. In order to conserve supplies of crude oil and natural gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of crude oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity. Federal, state, and local laws regulate production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of crude oil and natural gas, by-products from crude oil and natural gas and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil and natural gas operations. The price of US12OF’s units may be influenced by factors such as the short-term supply and demand for crude oil and the short-term supply and demand for US12OF’s units. This may cause the units to trade at a price that is above or below US12OF’s NAV per unit. Accordingly, changes in the price of units may substantially vary from the changes in the spot price of light, sweet crude oil. If this variation occurs, then investors may not be able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. While it is expected that the trading prices of the units will fluctuate in accordance with changes in US12OF’s NAV, the prices of units may also be influenced by other factors, including the short-term supply and demand for crude oil and the units. There is no guarantee that the units will not trade at appreciable discounts from, and/or premiums to, US12OF’s NAV. This could cause changes in the price of the units to substantially vary from changes in the spot price of light, sweet crude oil. This may be harmful to investors because if changes in the price of units vary substantially from changes in the spot price of light, sweet crude oil, then investors may not be able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge the risk of losses in their crude oil-related transactions or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. Changes in US12OF’s NAV may not correlate with changes in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts. If this were to occur, investors may not be able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. The General Partner endeavors to invest US12OF’s assets as fully as possible in short-term Futures Contracts and Other Crude Oil-Related Investments so that the changes in percentage terms of the NAV closely correlate with the changes in percentage terms in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts. However, changes in US12OF’s NAV may not correlate with the changes in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts for several reasons as set forth below: · US12OF (i) may not be able to buy/sell the exact amount of Futures Contracts and Other Crude Oil-Related Investments to have a perfect correlation with NAV; (ii) may not always be able to buy and sell Futures Contracts or Other Crude Oil-Related Investments at the market price; (iii) may not experience a perfect correlation between the spot price of light, sweet crude oil and the underlying investments in Futures Contracts, Other Crude Oil-Related Investments and Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents; and (iv) is required to pay fees, including brokerage fees and the management fee, which will have an effect on the correlation. · Short-term supply and demand for light, sweet crude oil may cause changes in the market price of the Benchmark Futures Contracts to vary from changes in US12OF’s NAV if US12OF has fully invested in Futures Contracts that do not reflect such supply and demand and it is unable to replace such contracts with Futures Contracts that do reflect such supply and demand. In addition, there are also technical differences between the two markets, e.g., one is a physical market while the other is a futures market traded on exchanges, that may cause variations between the spot price of crude oil and the prices of related futures contracts. · US12OF plans to buy only as many Futures Contracts and Other Crude Oil-Related Investments that it can to get the changes in percentage terms of the NAV as close as possible to the changes in percentage terms in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts. The remainder of its assets will be invested in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents and will be used to satisfy initial margin and additional margin requirements, if any, and to otherwise support its investments in oil interests. Investments in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents, both directly and as margin, will provide rates of return that will vary from changes in the value of the spot price of light, sweet crude oil and the average of the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts. 43 · In addition, because US12OF incurs certain expenses in connection with its investment activities, and holds most of its assets in more liquid short-term securities for margin and other liquidity purposes and for redemptions that may be necessary on an ongoing basis, the General Partner is generally not able to fully invest US12OF’s assets in Futures Contracts or Other Crude Oil-Related Investments and there cannot be perfect correlation between changes in US12OF’s NAV and changes in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts. · As US12OF grows, there may be more or less correlation. For example, if US12OF only has enough money to buy three Benchmark Futures Contracts and it needs to buy four contracts to track the price of oil then the correlation will be lower, but if it buys 20,000 Benchmark Futures Contracts and it needs to buy 20,001 contracts then the correlation will be higher. At certain asset levels, US12OF may be limited in its ability to purchase the Benchmark Futures Contracts or Other Crude Oil-Related Investments due to accountability levels imposed by the relevant exchanges. To the extent that US12OF invests in these other Futures Contracts or Other Crude Oil-Related Investments, the correlation with the Benchmark Futures Contracts may be lower. If US12OF is required to invest in other Futures Contracts and Other Crude Oil-Related Investments that are less correlated with the Benchmark Futures Contracts, US12OF would likely invest in over-the-counter contracts to increase the level of correlation of US12OF’s assets. Over-the-counter contracts entail certain risks described below under “Over-the-Counter Contract Risk.” · US12OF will invest in equal amounts of each of the Benchmark Futures Contracts. Certain months of these futures contracts may have less liquidity and availability than other months of these future contracts. The inability to purchase and hold the Benchmark Futures Contracts in equal amounts may cause less correlation between the units’ NAV and the average of the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts. · US12OF may not be able to buy the exact number of Futures Contracts and Other Crude Oil-Related Investments to have a perfect correlation with the Benchmark Futures Contracts if the purchase price of Futures Contracts required to be fully invested in such contracts is higher than the proceeds received for the sale of a Creation Basket on the day the basket was sold. In such case, US12OF could not invest the entire proceeds from the purchase of the Creation Basket in such futures contracts (for example, assume US12OF receives $4,000,000 for the sale of a Creation Basket and assume that the average of the prices of the Futures Contracts for light, sweet crude oil that reflects the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts is $46.00, then US12OF could only invest in Futures Contracts with an aggregate value of $3,956,600). US12OF would be required to invest a percentage of the proceeds in cash, Treasuries or other liquid securities to be deposited as margin with the futures commission merchant through which the contracts were purchased. The remainder of the purchase price for the Creation Basket would remain invested in cash and/or cash equivalents and Treasuries or other liquid securities as determined by the General Partner from time to time based on factors such as potential calls for margin or anticipated redemptions. If the trading market for Futures Contracts is suspended or closed, US12OF may not be able to purchase these investments at the last reported price for such investments. · US12OF may make use of “mini” contracts as a way of investing a dollar amount in contracts that may more closely match the dollar amount of net assets of the fund. However, even the use of mini contracts does not completely eliminate the risk that US12OF will not be able to buy or sell the exact number of Futures Contracts necessary. In addition there is a risk that because of the size and relative liquidity of such contracts when compared to standard size Futures Contracts such as the Benchmark Futures Contracts, the price of a smaller contract for a particular month may not equate to the Benchmark Futures Contract for the same month, which could cause the change in the US12OF’s per unit price and NAV to vary from changes in the average price of the Benchmark Futures Contracts. If changes in US12OF’s NAV do not correlate with changes in the average of the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts, then investing in US12OF may not be an effective way to hedge against oil-related losses or indirectly invest in oil. 44 The Benchmark Futures Contracts may not correlate with the spot price of light, sweet crude oil and this could cause changes in the price of the units to substantially vary from the changes in the spot price of light, sweet crude oil. If this were to occur, then investors may not be able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. When using the Benchmark Futures Contracts as a strategy to track the spot price of light, sweet crude oil, at best the correlation between changes in prices of such Crude Oil Interests and the spot price of crude oil can be only approximate. The degree of imperfection of correlation depends upon circumstances such as variations in the speculative oil market, supply of and demand for such Crude Oil Interests and technical influences in oil futures trading. If there is a weak correlation between the Crude Oil Interests and the spot price of light, sweet crude oil, then the price of units may not accurately track the spot price of light, sweet crude oil and investors may not be able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge the risk of losses in their oil-related transactions or as a way to indirectly invest in oil. US12OF may experience a loss if it is required to sell Treasuries at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired. The value of Treasuries generally moves inversely with movements in interest rates. If US12OF is required to sell Treasuries at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired, US12OF will experience a loss. This loss may adversely impact the price of the units and may decrease the correlation between the price of the units, the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts and Other Crude Oil-Related Investments, and the spot price of light, sweet crude oil. Certain of US12OF’s investments could be illiquid which could cause large losses to investors at any time or from time to time. At any given time, US12OF may own 12 different monthly crude oil contracts which have differing expiration schedules. The amount of liquidity in the crude oil futures market for each of those months will vary. In some cases certain of those months may have relatively small amounts of open interest and daily trading volume. As a result, US12OF may not always be able to liquidate its positions in its investments at the desired price. It is difficult to execute a trade at a specific price when there is a relatively small volume of buy and sell orders in a market. A market disruption, such as a foreign government taking political actions that disrupt the market in its currency, its crude oil production or exports, or in another major export, can also make it difficult to liquidate a position. Alternatively, limits imposed by futures exchanges or other regulatory organizations, such as accountability levels, position limits and daily price fluctuation limits, may contribute to a lack of liquidity with respect to some Crude Oil Interests. Unexpected market illiquidity may cause major losses to investors at any time or from time to time. In addition, US12OF has not and does not intend at this time to establish a credit facility, which would provide an additional source of liquidity and instead will rely only on the Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents that it holds. The anticipated large value of the positions in Futures Contracts that the General Partner will acquire or enter into for US12OF increases the risk of illiquidity. The Other Crude Oil-Related Investments that US12OF invests in, such as negotiated over-the-counter contracts, may have a greater likelihood of being illiquid since they are contracts between two parties that take into account not only market risk, but also the relative credit, tax, and settlement risks under such contracts. Such contracts also have limited transferability that results from such risks and the contract’s express limitations. Because both Futures Contracts and Other Crude Oil-Related Investments may be illiquid, US12OF’s Crude Oil Interests may be more difficult to liquidate at favorable prices in periods of illiquid markets and losses may be incurred during the period in which positions are being liquidated. 45 If the nature of hedgors and speculators in futures markets has shifted such that crude oil purchasers are the predominant hedgors in the market, US12OF might have to reinvest at higher futures prices or choose Other Crude Oil-Related Investments. The changing nature of the hedgors and speculators in the crude oil market influences whether futures prices are above or below the expected future spot price. In order to induce speculators to take the corresponding long side of the same futures contract, crude oil producers must generally be willing to sell futures contracts at prices that are below expected future spot prices. Conversely, if the predominant hedgors in the futures market are the purchasers of the crude oil who purchase futures contracts to hedge against a rise in prices, then speculators will only take the short side of the futures contract if the futures price is greater than the expected future spot price of crude oil. This can have significant implications for US12OF when it is time to reinvest the proceeds from a maturing Futures Contract into a new Futures Contract. While US12OF does not intend to take physical delivery of oil under its Futures Contracts, physical delivery under such contracts impacts the value of the contracts. While it is not the current intention of US12OF to take to take physical delivery of crude oil under its Futures Contracts, futures contracts are not required to be cash-settled and it is possible to take delivery under some of these contracts. Storage costs associated with purchasing crude oil could result in costs and other liabilities that could impact the value of Futures Contracts or Other Crude Oil-Related Investments. Storage costs include the time value of money invested in crude oil as a physical commodity plus the actual costs of storing the crude oil less any benefits from ownership of crude oil that are not obtained by the holder of a futures contract. In general, Futures Contracts have a one-month delay for contract delivery and the back month (the back month is any future delivery month other than the spot month) includes storage costs. To the extent that these storage costs change for crude oil while US12OF holds Futures Contracts or Other Crude Oil-Related Investments, the value of the Futures Contracts or Other Crude Oil-Related Investments, and therefore US12OF’s NAV, may change as well. Because it holds Futures Contracts that will mature up to 13 months later than the spot or current month, US12OF’s NAV will be impacted more from the changes in storage costs than would the NAV of a fund that holds more current futures contracts. The price relationship between the near month contract and the other monthly contracts that compose the Benchmark Futures Contracts will vary and may impact both the total return over time of US12OF’s NAV, as well as the degree to which its total return tracks other crude oil price indices’ total returns. The Benchmark Futures Contracts consist of the near month contract to expire and the contracts for the following 11 months, except during the last two weeks of the current month when the near month contract is sold and replaced by the futures contract for the thirteenth month following the current month. In the event of a crude oil futures market where near month contracts trade at a higher price than the price of contracts that expire later in time, a situation described as “backwardation” in the futures market, then absent the impact of the overall movement in crude oil prices the value of the benchmark contract would tend to rise as it approaches expiration. As a result, the total return of the Benchmark Futures Contract would tend to track higher. Conversely, in the event of a crude oil futures market where near month contracts trade at a lower price than the price of contracts that expire later in time, a situation described as “contango” in the futures market, then absent the impact of the overall movement in crude oil prices the value of the benchmark contract would tend to decline as it approaches expiration. As a result the total return of the Benchmark Futures Contract would tend to track lower. When compared to total return of other price indices, such as the spot price of crude oil, the impact of backwardation and contango may lead the total return of US12OF’s NAV to vary significantly. In the event of a prolonged period of contango, and absent the impact of rising or falling oil prices, this could have a significant negative impact on US12OF’s NAV and total return. Furthermore, a portfolio that consists of twelve different monthly contracts, ranging in a “strip” from the first month to the twelfth month, will be impacted differently by contango and backwardation than a portfolio that consists of just the first month contract. Because US12OF’s portfolio will typically hold as many as 12 different crude oil futures contracts at all times, it may be more expensive for US12OF to buy or sell futures contracts for its portfolio. Because US12OF will typically hold as many as 12 different futures contracts at any one time, the cost of trading a large number of different contracts could be greater than the cost of trading the same dollar amount using just one contract. In addition, the bid/ask spread for buying these different contracts could also on average be greater than the bid/ask spread for buying a single futures contract month. This could make it more expensive for US12OF to invest compared to investing in a single monthly contract. Wider bid/ask spreads and/or higher commission or brokerage costs would negatively impact an investor’s investment returns in US12OF. 46 Because US12OF’s portfolio will typically hold as many as 12 different crude oil futures contracts at all times, firms that make a market in the units will also need to hold multiple contracts when hedging their inventories of units and when creating or redeeming baskets. This could lead to the units of US12OF trading at wider bid/ask spreads in the secondary market than an exchange traded security holding crude oil futures that uses a fewer number of futures contracts at any given time. Brokerage firms or other market participants that make a secondary market in the units of US12OF may do so by simultaneously hedging their positions by being long, or short, the same Futures Contracts that US12OF holds in its portfolio. The cost to brokerage firms or other market participants in putting on and taking off these hedges is one of the factors that determine the size of the bid/ask spread they quote on a security such as US12OF. Because US12OF will typically hold as many as 12 different futures contracts at any one time, the brokerage firms or other market participants will also find themselves having to trade a number of different contracts as well. The cost of trading a large number of different contracts may be greater than the cost of trading the same dollar amount using just one contract. As a result, the bid/ask spread for US12OF may be wider than the bid/ask spread for an exchange traded security investing in a fewer number of futures contracts at any given time. The wider bid/ask spread may negatively impact an investor’s investment returns in US12OF. Regulation of the commodity interests and energy markets is extensive and constantly changing; future regulatory developments are impossible to predict but may significantly and adversely affect US12OF. The futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations, and margin requirements. In addition, the CFTC and the exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of a market emergency, including, for example, the retroactive implementation of speculative position limits or higher margin requirements, the establishment of daily price limits and the suspension of trading. The regulation of futures transactions in the United States is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to modification by government and judicial action. The regulation of commodity interest transactions in the United States is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to ongoing modification by governmental and judicial action. Considerable regulatory attention has been focused on non-traditional investment pools which are publicly distributed in the United States. There is a possibility of future regulatory changes altering, perhaps to a material extent, the nature of an investment by US12OF or the ability of US12OF to continue to implement its investment strategy. In addition, various national governments have expressed concern regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the energy markets and the need to regulate the derivatives markets in general. The effect of any future regulatory change on US12OF is impossible to predict, but could be substantial and adverse. Investing in US12OF for purposes of hedging may be subject to several risks including the possibility of losing the benefit of favorable market movement. Participants in the crude oil or in other industries may use US12OF as a vehicle to hedge the risk of losses in their crude oil-related transactions. There are several risks in connection with using US12OF as a hedging device. While hedging can provide protection against an adverse movement in market prices, it can also preclude a hedgor’s opportunity to benefit from a favorable market movement. In a hedging transaction, the hedgor may be concerned that the hedged item will increase in price, but must recognize the risk that the price may instead decline and if this happens he will have lost his opportunity to profit from the change in price because the hedging transaction will result in a loss rather than a gain. Thus, the hedgor foregoes the opportunity to profit from favorable price movements. In addition, if the hedge is not a perfect one, the hedgor can lose on the hedging transaction and not realize an offsetting gain in the value of the underlying item being hedged. When using futures contracts as a hedging technique, at best, the correlation between changes in prices of futures contracts and of the items being hedged can be only approximate. The degree of imperfection of correlation depends upon circumstances such as: variations in speculative markets, demand for futures and for crude oil products, technical influences in futures trading, and differences between anticipated energy costs being hedged and the instruments underlying the standard futures contracts available for trading. Even a well-conceived hedge may be unsuccessful to some degree because of unexpected market behavior as well as the expenses associated with creating the hedge. 47 In addition, using an investment in US12OF as a hedge for changes in energy costs (e.g., investing in crude oil, heating oil, gasoline, natural gas or other fuels, or electricity) may not correlate because changes in the spot price of crude oil may vary from changes in energy costs because the spot price may not be at the same rate as changes in the price of other energy products, and, in any case, the price of crude oil does not reflect the refining, transportation, and other costs that may impact the hedgor’s energy costs. An investment in US12OF may provide little or no diversification benefits. Thus, in a declining market, US12OF may have no gains to offset losses from other investments, and an investor may suffer losses on an investment in US12OF while incurring losses with respect to other asset classes. Historically, Futures Contracts and Other Crude Oil-Related Investments have generally been non-correlated to the performance of other asset classes such as stocks and bonds. Non-correlation means that there is a low statistically valid relationship between the performance of futures and other commodity interest transactions, on the one hand, and stocks or bonds, on the other hand. However, there can be no assurance that such non-correlation will continue during future periods. If, contrary to historic patterns, US12OF’s performance were to move in the same general direction as the financial markets, investors will obtain little or no diversification benefits from an investment in the units. In such a case, US12OF may have no gains to offset losses from other investments, and investors may suffer losses on their investment in US12OF at the same time they incur losses with respect to other investments. Variables such as drought, floods, weather, embargoes, tariffs and other political events may have a larger impact on crude oil prices and crude oil-linked instruments, including Futures Contracts and Other Crude Oil-Related Investments, than on traditional securities. These additional variables may create additional investment risks that subject US12OF’s investments to greater volatility than investments in traditional securities. Non-correlation should not be confused with negative correlation, where the performance of two asset classes would be opposite of each other. There is no historic evidence that the spot price of crude oil and prices of other financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, are negatively correlated. In the absence of negative correlation, US12OF cannot be expected to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods for the stock market, or vice versa. US12OF’s Operating Risks US12OF is not a registered investment company so unitholders do not have the protections of the 1940 Act. US12OF is not an investment company subject to the 1940 Act. Accordingly, investors do not have the protections afforded by that statute which, for example, requires investment companies to have a majority of disinterested directors and regulates the relationship between the investment company and its investment manager. The General Partner is leanly staffed and relies heavily on key personnel to manage trading activities. In managing and directing the day-to-day activities and affairs of US12OF, the General Partner relies heavily on Messrs. Nicholas Gerber, John Love and John Hyland. If Messrs. Gerber, Love or Hyland were to leave or be unable to carry out their present responsibilities, it may have an adverse effect on the management of US12OF. Furthermore, Messrs. Gerber, Love and Hyland are currently involved in the management of the Related Public Funds and the General Partner has filed a registration statement for two other exchange traded security funds, USSO and US12NG. Mr. Gerber is also employed by Ameristock Corporation, a registered investment adviser that manages a public mutual fund. It is estimated that Mr. Gerber will spend approximately 50% of his time on US12OF and Related Public Fund matters. Mr. Love will spend approximately 100% of his time on US12OF and Related Public Fund matters and Mr. Hyland will spend approximately 85% of his time on US12OF and Related Public Fund matters. To the extent that the General Partner establishes additional funds, even greater demands will be placed on Messrs. Gerber, Love and Hyland, as well as the other officers of the General Partner, including Mr. Howard Mah, the Chief Financial Officer, and its Board of Directors. 48 Accountability levels, position limits, and daily price fluctuation limits set by the exchanges have the potential to cause a tracking error, which could cause the price of units to substantially vary from the average of the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts and prevent investors from being able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. U.S. designated contract markets such as the NYMEX have established accountability levels and position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by US12OF is not) may hold, own or control. For example, the current accountability level for investments at any one time in the Benchmark Futures Contract is 20,000. While this is not a fixed ceiling, it is a threshold above which the NYMEX may exercise greater scrutiny and control over an investor, including limiting an investor to holding no more than 20,000 Benchmark Futures Contracts. With regard to position limits, the NYMEX limits an investor from holding more than 3,000 net futures in the last 3 days of trading in the near month contract to expire. In addition to accountability levels and position limits, the NYMEX also sets daily price fluctuation limits on futures contracts. The daily price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of a futures contract may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price. Once the daily price fluctuation limit has been reached in a particular futures contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. For example, the NYMEX imposes a $10.00 per barrel ($10,000 per contract) price fluctuation limit for the Benchmark Futures Contracts. This limit is initially based off of the previous trading day’s settlement price. If any Benchmark Futures Contract is traded, bid, or offered at the limit for five minutes, trading is halted for five minutes. When trading resumes it begins at the point where the limit was imposed and the limit is reset to be $10.00 per barrel in either direction of that point. If another halt were triggered, the market would continue to be expanded by $10.00 per barrel in either direction after each successive five-minute trading halt. There is no maximum price fluctuation limit during any one trading session. All of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the units and the average of the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts. This may in turn prevent investors from being able to effectively use US12OF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. US12OF has not limited the size of its offering and is committed to utilizing substantially all of its proceeds to purchase Futures Contracts and Other Crude Oil-Related Investments. If US12OF encounters accountability levels, position limits, or price fluctuation limits for Futures Contracts on the NYMEX, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Futures Contracts on the ICE Futures (formerly, the International Petroleum Exchange) or other exchanges that trade listed crude oil futures. The Futures Contracts available on the ICE Futures are generally comparable to the contracts on the NYMEX, but they may have different underlying commodities, sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, the Futures Contracts available or the ICE Futures may be subject to accountability levels or position limits. There are technical and fundamental risks inherent in the trading system the General Partner intends to employ. The General Partner’s trading system is quantitative in nature and it is possible that the General Partner might make a mathematical error. In addition, it is also possible that a computer or software program may malfunction and cause an error in computation. To the extent that the General Partner uses spreads and straddles as part of its trading strategy, there is the risk that the NAV may not closely track the changes in the Benchmark Futures Contracts. Spreads combine simultaneous long and short positions in related futures contracts that differ by commodity (e.g., long crude oil and short gasoline), by market (e.g., long WTI crude futures, short Brent crude futures), or by delivery month (e.g., long December, short November). Spreads gain or lose value as a result of relative changes in price between the long and short positions. Spreads often reduce risk to investors, because the contracts tend to move up or down together. However, both legs of the spread could move against an investor simultaneously, in which case the spread would lose value. Certain types of spreads may face unlimited risk e.g., because the price of a futures contract underlying a short position can increase by an unlimited amount and the investor would have to take delivery or offset at that price. 49 A commodity straddle takes both long and short option positions in the same commodity in the same market and delivery month simultaneously. The buyer of a straddle profits if either the long or the short leg of the straddle moves further than the combined cost of both options. The seller of a straddle profits if both the long and short positions do not trade beyond a range equal to the combined premium for selling both options. If the General Partner were to utilize a spread or straddle position and the spread performed differently than expected, the results could impact US12OF’s tracking error. This could affect US12OF’s investment objective of having its NAV closely track the changes in the Benchmark Futures Contracts. Additionally, a loss on a spread position would negatively impact US12OF’s absolute return. US12OF and the General Partner may have conflicts of interest, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of unitholders. US12OF and the General Partner may have inherent conflicts to the extent the General Partner attempts to maintain US12OF’s asset size in order to preserve its fee income and this may not always be consistent with US12OF’s objective of having the value of its units’ NAV track changes in the Benchmark Futures Contracts. The General Partner’s officers, directors and employees do not devote their time exclusively to US12OF. These persons are directors, officers or employees of other entities that may compete with US12OF for their services. They could have a conflict between their responsibilities to US12OF and to those other entities. In addition, the General Partner’s principals, officers, directors or employees may trade futures and related contracts for their own account. A conflict of interest may exist if their trades are in the same markets and at the same time as US12OF trades using the clearing broker to be used by US12OF. A potential conflict also may occur if the General Partner’s principals, officers, directors or employees trade their accounts more aggressively or take positions in their accounts which are opposite, or ahead of, the positions taken by US12OF. The General Partner has sole current authority to manage the investments and operations of US12OF, and this may allow it to act in a way that furthers its own interests which may create a conflict with the best interests of investors. Limited partners have limited voting control, which will limit the ability to influence matters such as amendment of the LP Agreement, change in US12OF’s basic investment policy, dissolution of this fund, or the sale or distribution of US12OF’s assets. The General Partner serves as the general partner to each of US12OF and the Related Public Funds and will serve as the general partner for USSO and US12NG, if such funds offer their securities to the public or begin operations. The General Partner may have a conflict to the extent that its trading decisions for US12OF may be influenced by the effect they would have on the other funds it manages. These trading decisions may be influenced since the General Partner also serves as the general partner for all of the funds and is required to meet all of the funds’ investment objectives as well as US12OF’s. If the General Partner believes that a trading decision it made on behalf of US12OF might (i) impede its other funds from reaching their investment objectives, or (ii) improve the likelihood of meeting its other funds’ objectives, then the General Partner may choose to change its trading decision for US12OF, which could either impede or improve the opportunity for US12OF to meet its investment objective. In addition, the General Partner is required to indemnify the officers and directors of its other funds if the need for indemnification arises. This potential indemnification will cause the General Partner’s assets to decrease. If the General Partner’s other sources of income are not sufficient to compensate for the indemnification, then the General Partner may terminate and investors could lose their investment. 50 Unitholders may only vote on the removal of the General Partner and limited partners have only limited voting rights. Unitholders and limited partners will not participate in the management of US12OF and do not control the General Partner so they will not have influence over basic matters that affect US12OF. Unitholders that have not applied to become limited partners have no voting rights, other than to remove the General Partner. Limited partners will have limited voting rights with respect to US12OF’s affairs. Unitholders may remove the General Partner only if 66 2/3% of the unitholders elect to do so. Unitholders and limited partners will not be permitted to participate in the management or control of US12OF or the conduct of its business. Unitholders and limited partners must therefore rely upon the duties and judgment of the General Partner to manage US12OF’s affairs. The General Partner may manage a large amount of assets and this could affect US12OF’s ability to trade profitably. Increases in assets under management may affect trading decisions. In general, the General Partner does not intend to limit the amount of assets of US12OF that it may manage. The more assets the General Partner manages, the more difficult it may be for it to trade profitably because of the difficulty of trading larger positions without adversely affecting prices and performance and of managing risk associated with larger positions. US12OF could terminate at any time and cause the liquidation and potential loss of an investor’s investment and could upset the overall maturity and timing of an investor’s investment portfolio. US12OF may terminate at any time, regardless of whether US12OF has incurred losses, subject to the terms of the LP Agreement. In particular, unforeseen circumstances, including the death, adjudication of incompetence, bankruptcy, dissolution, or removal of the General Partner could cause US12OF to terminate unless a majority in interest of the limited partners within 90 days of the event elects to continue the partnership and appoints a successor general partner, or the affirmative vote of a majority in interest of the limited partners subject to certain conditions. However, no level of losses will require the General Partner to terminate US12OF. US12OF’s termination would cause the liquidation and potential loss of an investor’s investment. Termination could also negatively affect the overall maturity and timing of an investor’s investment portfolio. Limited partners may not have limited liability in certain circumstances, including potentially having liability for the return of wrongful distributions. Under Delaware law, a limited partner might be held liable for US12OF obligations as if it were a General Partner if the limited partner participates in the control of the partnership’s business and the persons who transact business with the partnership think the limited partner is the General Partner. A limited partner will not be liable for assessments in addition to its initial capital investment in any of US12OF’s capital securities representing units. However, a limited partner may be required to repay to US12OF any amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to it under some circumstances. Under Delaware law, US12OF may not make a distribution to limited partners if the distribution causes US12OF’s liabilities (other than liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities) to exceed the fair value of US12OF’s assets. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated the law will be liable to the limited partnership for the amount of the distribution for three years from the date of the distribution. With adequate notice, a limited partner may be required to withdraw from the partnership for any reason. If the General Partner gives at least fifteen (15) days’ written notice to a limited partner, then the General Partner may for any reason, in its sole discretion, require any such limited partner to withdraw entirely from the partnership or to withdraw a portion of its partner capital account. The General Partner may require withdrawal even in situations where the limited partner has complied completely with the provisions of the LP Agreement. US12OF’s existing units are, and any units US12OF issues in the future will be, subject to restrictions on transfer. Failure to satisfy these requirements will preclude a transferee from being able to have all the rights of a limited partner. No transfer of any unit or interest therein may be made if such transfer would (a) violate the then applicable federal or state securities laws or rules and regulations of the SEC, any state securities commission, the CFTC or any other governmental authority with jurisdiction over such transfer, or (b) cause US12OF to be taxable as a corporation or affect US12OF’s existence or qualification as a limited partnership. In addition, investors may only become limited partners if they transfer their units to purchasers that meet certain conditions outlined in the LP Agreement, which provides that each record holder or limited partner or unitholder applying to become a limited partner (each a record holder) may be required by the General Partner to furnish certain information, including that holder’s nationality, citizenship or other related status. A transferee who is not a U.S. resident may not be eligible to become a record holder or a limited partner if its ownership would subject US12OF to the risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any of its assets under any federal, state or local law or regulation. All purchasers of US12OF’s units, who wish to become limited partners or record holders, and receive cash distributions, if any, or have certain other rights, must deliver an executed transfer application in which the purchaser or transferee must certify that, among other things, he, she or it agrees to be bound by US12OF’s LP Agreement and is eligible to purchase US12OF’s securities. Any transfer of units will not be recorded by the transfer agent or recognized by US12OF unless a completed transfer application is delivered to the General Partner or the Administrator. A person purchasing US12OF’s existing units, who does not execute a transfer application and certify that the purchaser is eligible to purchase those securities acquires no rights in those securities other than the right to resell those securities. Whether or not a transfer application is received or the consent of the General Partner obtained, US12OF’s units will be securities and will be transferable according to the laws governing transfers of securities. See “Transfer of Units.” 51 US12OF does not expect to make cash distributions. The General Partner has not previously made any cash distributions and intends to re-invest any realized gains in additional oil interests rather than distributing cash to limited partners. Therefore, unlike mutual funds, commodity pools or other investment pools that actively manage their investments in an attempt to realize income and gains from their investing activities and distribute such income and gains to their investors, US12OF generally does not expect to distribute cash to limited partners. An investor should not invest in US12OF if it will need cash distributions from US12OF to pay taxes on its share of income and gains of US12OF, if any, or for any other reason. Although US12OF does not intend to make cash distributions, the income earned from its investments held directly or posted as margin may reach levels that merit distribution, e.g., at levels where such income is not necessary to support its underlying investments in oil interests and investors adversely react to being taxed on such income without receiving distributions that could be used to pay such tax. If this income becomes significant then cash distributions may be made. There is a risk that US12OF will not earn trading gains sufficient to compensate for the fees and expenses that it must pay and as such US12OF may not earn any profit. US12OF pays brokerage charges of approximately 0.03%, futures commission merchant fees of $3.50 per buy or sell, management fees of 0.60% of NAV on its average net assets, and over-the-counter spreads and extraordinary expenses (e.g., subsequent offering expenses, other expenses not in the ordinary course of business, including the indemnification of any person against liabilities and obligations to the extent permitted by law and required under the LP Agreement and under agreements entered into by the General Partner on US12OF’s behalf and the bringing and defending of actions at law or in equity and otherwise engaging in the conduct of litigation and the incurring of legal expenses and the settlement of claims and litigation) that can not be quantified. These fees and expenses must be paid in all cases regardless of whether US12OF’s activities are profitable. Accordingly, US12OF must earn trading gains sufficient to compensate for these fees and expenses before it can earn any profit. US12OF has historically depended upon its affiliates to pay all its expenses. If this offering of units does not raise sufficient funds to pay US12OF’s future expenses and no other source of funding of expenses is found, US12OF may be forced to terminate and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Prior to the offering of units that commenced on December 6, 2007, all of US12OF’s expenses were funded by the General Partner and its affiliates. These payments by the General Partner and its affiliates were designed to allow US12OF the ability to commence the public offering of its units. US12OF now directly pays certain of these fees and expenses. The General Partner will continue to pay other fees and expenses, as set forth in the LP Agreement. If the General Partner and US12OF are unable to raise sufficient funds to cover their expenses or locate any other source of funding, US12OF may be forced to terminate and investors may lose all or part of their investment. 52 US12OF may incur higher fees and expenses upon renewing existing or entering into new contractual relationships. The clearing arrangements between the clearing brokers and US12OF generally are terminable by the clearing brokers once the clearing broker has given US12OF notice. Upon termination, the General Partner may be required to renegotiate or make other arrangements for obtaining similar services if US12OF intends to continue trading in Futures Contracts or Other Crude Oil-Related Investments at its present level of capacity. The services of any clearing broker may not be available, or even if available, these services may not be available on the terms as favorable as those of the expired or terminated clearing arrangements. US12OF may miss certain trading opportunities because it will not receive the benefit of the expertise of independent trading advisors. The General Partner does not employ trading advisors for US12OF; however, it reserves the right to employ them in the future. The only advisor to US12OF is the General Partner. A lack of independent trading advisors may be disadvantageous to US12OF because it will not receive the benefit of a trading advisor’s expertise. An unanticipated number of redemption requests during a short period of time could have an adverse effect on the NAV of US12OF. If a substantial number of requests for redemption of Redemption Baskets are received by US12OF during a relatively short period of time, US12OF may not be able to satisfy the requests from US12OF’s assets not committed to trading. As a consequence, it could be necessary to liquidate positions in US12OF’s trading positions before the time that the trading strategies would otherwise dictate liquidation. The financial markets are currently in a period of disruption and recession and US12OF does not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Currently and throughout 2008, the financial markets have experienced very difficult conditions and volatility as well as significant adverse trends. The deteriorating conditions in these markets have resulted in a decrease in availability of corporate credit and liquidity and have led indirectly to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of major financial institutions and have contributed to further consolidation within the financial services industry. A continued recession or a depression could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of US12OF’s service providers and Authorized Purchasers which would impact the ability of the General Partner to achieve US12OF’s investment objective. The failure or bankruptcy of a clearing broker could result in a substantial loss of US12OF’s assets; the clearing broker could be subject to proceedings that impair its ability to execute USOF’s trades. Under CFTC regulations, a clearing broker maintains customers’ assets in a bulk segregated account. If a clearing broker fails to do so, or is unable to satisfy a substantial deficit in a customer account, its other customers may be subject to risk of a substantial loss of their funds in the event of that clearing broker’s bankruptcy. In that event, the clearing broker’s customers, such as US12OF, are entitled to recover, even in respect of property specifically traceable to them, only a proportional share of all property available for distribution to all of that clearing broker’s customers. The bankruptcy of a clearing broker could result in the complete loss of US12OF’s assets posted with the clearing broker; though the vast majority of US12OF’s assets are held in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents with US12OF’s custodian and would not be impacted by the bankruptcy of a clearing broker. US12OF also may be subject to the risk of the failure of, or delay in performance by, any exchanges and markets and their clearing organizations, if any, on which commodity interest contracts are traded. From time to time, the clearing brokers may be subject to legal or regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their business. A clearing broker’s involvement in costly or time-consuming legal proceedings may divert financial resources or personnel away from the clearing broker’s trading operations, which could impair the clearing broker’s ability to successfully execute and clear US12OF’s trades. 53 The failure or insolvency of US12OF’s custodian could result in a substantial loss of US12OF’s assets. As noted above, the vast majority of US12OF’s assets are held in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents with US12OF’s custodian. The insolvency of the custodian could result in a complete loss of US12OF’s assets held by that custodian, which, at any given time, would likely comprise a substantial portion of US12OF’s total assets. Third parties may infringe upon or otherwise violate intellectual property rights or assert that the General Partner has infringed or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights, which may result in significant costs and diverted attention. Third parties may utilize US12OF’s intellectual property or technology, including the use of its business methods, trademarks and trading program software, without permission. The General Partner has a patent pending for US12OF’s business method and it is registering its trademarks. US12OF does not currently have any proprietary software. However, if it obtains proprietary software in the future, then any unauthorized use of US12OF’s proprietary software and other technology could also adversely affect its competitive advantage. US12OF may have difficulty monitoring unauthorized uses of its patents, trademarks, proprietary software and other technology. Also, third parties may independently develop business methods, trademarks or proprietary software and other technology similar to that of the General Partner or claim that the General Partner has violated their intellectual property rights, including their copyrights, trademark rights, trade names, trade secrets and patent rights. As a result, the General Partner may have to litigate in the future to protect its trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, defend itself against claims that it has infringed or otherwise violated other parties’ rights, or defend itself against claims that its rights are invalid. Any litigation of this type, even if the General Partner is successful and regardless of the merits, may result in significant costs, divert its resources from US12OF, or require it to change its proprietary software and other technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. The success of US12OF depends on the ability of the General Partner to accurately implement trading systems, and any failure to do so could subject US12OF to losses on such transactions. The General Partner uses mathematical formulas built into a generally available spreadsheet program to decide whether it should buy or sell Crude Oil Interests each day. Specifically, the General Partner uses the spreadsheet to make mathematical calculations and to monitor positions in Crude Oil Interests and Treasuries and correlations to the Benchmark Futures Contracts. The General Partner must accurately process the spreadsheets’ outputs and execute the transactions called for by the formulas. In addition, US12OF relies on the General Partner to properly operate and maintain its computer and communications systems. Execution of the formulas and operation of the systems are subject to human error. Any failure, inaccuracy or delay in implementing any of the formulas or systems and executing US12OF’s transactions could impair its ability to achieve US12OF’s investment objective. It could also result in decisions to undertake transactions based on inaccurate or incomplete information. This could cause substantial losses on transactions. US12OF may experience substantial losses on transactions if the computer or communications system fails. US12OF’s trading activities, including its risk management, depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. Extraordinary transaction volume, hardware or software failure, power or telecommunications failure, a natural disaster or other catastrophe could cause the computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. Any significant degradation or failure of the systems that the General Partner uses to gather and analyze information, enter orders, process data, monitor risk levels and otherwise engage in trading activities may result in substantial losses on transactions, liability to other parties, lost profit opportunities, damages to the General Partner’s and US12OF’s reputations, increased operational expenses and diversion of technical resources. If the computer and communications systems are not upgraded, as needed, US12OF’s financial condition could be harmed. The development of complex computer and communications systems and new technologies may render the existing computer and communications systems supporting US12OF’s trading activities obsolete. In addition, these computer and communications systems must be compatible with those of third parties, such as the systems of exchanges, clearing brokers and the executing brokers. As a result, if these third parties upgrade their systems, the General Partner will need to make corresponding upgrades to continue effectively its trading activities. US12OF’s future success will depend on US12OF’s ability to respond to changing technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis. 54 US12OF depends on the reliable performance of the computer and communications systems of third parties, such as brokers and futures exchanges, and may experience substantial losses on transactions if they fail. US12OF depends on the proper and timely function of complex computer and communications systems maintained and operated by the futures exchanges, brokers and other data providers that the General Partner uses to conduct trading activities. Failure or inadequate performance of any of these systems could adversely affect the General Partner’s ability to complete transactions, including its ability to close out positions, and result in lost profit opportunities and significant losses on commodity interest transactions. This could have a material adverse effect on revenues and materially reduce US12OF’s available capital. For example, unavailability of price quotations from third parties may make it difficult or impossible for the General Partner to use its proprietary software that it relies upon to conduct its trading activities. Unavailability of records from brokerage firms may make it difficult or impossible for the General Partner to accurately determine which transactions have been executed or the details, including price and time, of any transaction executed. This unavailability of information also may make it difficult or impossible for the General Partner to reconcile its records of transactions with those of another party or to accomplish settlement of executed transactions. The occurrence of a terrorist attack, or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities could disrupt US12OF’s trading activity and materially affect US12OF’s profitability. The operations of US12OF, the exchanges, brokers and counterparties with which US12OF does business, and the markets in which US12OF does business could be severely disrupted in the event of a major terrorist attack or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the war in Iraq, global anti-terrorism initiatives and political unrest in the Middle East and Southeast Asia continue to fuel this concern. Risk of Leverage and Volatility If the General Partner permits US12OF to become leveraged, investors could lose all or substantially all of their investment if US12OF’s trading positions suddenly turn unprofitable. Commodity pools’ trading positions in futures contracts or other commodity interests are typically required to be secured by the deposit of margin funds that represent only a small percentage of a futures contract’s (or other commodity interests’) entire market value. This feature permits commodity pools to “leverage” their assets by purchasing or selling futures contracts (or other commodity interests) with an aggregate value in excess of the commodity pool’s assets. While this leverage can increase the pool’s profits, relatively small adverse movements in the price of the pool’s futures contracts can cause significant losses to the pool. While the General Partner has not and does not currently intend to leverage US12OF’s assets, it is not prohibited from doing so under the LP Agreement or otherwise. The price of crude oil is volatile which could cause large fluctuations in the price of units. Movements in the price of crude oil may be the result of factors outside of the General Partner’s control and may not be anticipated by the General Partner. For example, price movements for barrels of oil are influenced by, among other things: · changes in interest rates; · actions by oil producing countries such as the OPEC countries; · governmental, agricultural, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies; 55 · weather and climate conditions; · changing supply and demand relationships, including but not limited to levels of demand domestically or by other countries such as China; · changes in balances of payments and trade; · U.S. and international rates of inflation; · currency devaluations and revaluations; · U.S. and international political and economic events; and · changes in philosophies and emotions of market participants. Since US12OF’s commencement of operations on December 6, 2007, there has been tremendous volatility in the prices of the Benchmark Futures Contracts. For example, the price of the NYMEX futures contract for light, sweet crude oil rose to an all-time high of $145.29 on July 3, 2008 and dropped to a 2008 low of $33.87 on December 19, 2008. The General Partner anticipates that there will be continued volatility in the price of the NYMEX futures contract for light, sweet crude oil and futures contracts for other petroleum-based commodities. Consequently, investors should know that this volatility can lead to a loss of all or substantially all of their investment in US12OF. The impact of environmental and other governmental laws and regulations that may affect the price of crude oil. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon crude oil and oil wells. Other laws have prevented exploration and drilling of crude oil in certain environmentally sensitive federal lands and waters. Several environmental laws that have a direct or an indirect impact on the price of crude oil include, but are not limited to, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. Over-the-Counter Contract Risk Over-the-counter transactions are subject to little, if any, regulation. A portion of US12OF’s assets may be used to trade over-the-counter crude oil interest contracts, such as forward contracts or swap or spot contracts. Over-the-counter contracts are typically traded on a principal-to-principal basis through dealer markets that are dominated by major money center and investment banks and other institutions and are essentially unregulated by the CFTC. Investors therefore do not receive the protection of CFTC regulation or the statutory scheme of the CEA in connection with this trading activity by US12OF. The markets for over-the-counter contracts rely upon the integrity of market participants in lieu of the additional regulation imposed by the CFTC on participants in the futures markets. The lack of regulation in these markets could expose US12OF in certain circumstances to significant losses in the event of trading abuses or financial failure by participants. 56 US12OF will be subject to credit risk with respect to counterparties to over-the-counter contracts entered into by US12OF or held by special purpose or structured vehicles. US12OF faces the risk of non-performance by the counterparties to the over-the-counter contracts. Unlike in futures contracts, the counterparty to these contracts is generally a single bank or other financial institution, rather than a clearing organization backed by a group of financial institutions. As a result, there will be greater counterparty credit risk in these transactions. A counterparty may not be able to meet its obligations to US12OF, in which case US12OF could suffer significant losses on these contracts. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations due to financial difficulties, US12OF may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery in a bankruptcy or other reorganization proceeding. US12OF may obtain only limited recovery or may obtain no recovery in such circumstances. US12OF may be subject to liquidity risk with respect to its over-the-counter contracts. Over-the-counter contracts may have terms that make them less marketable than Futures Contracts. Over-the-counter contracts are less marketable because they are not traded on an exchange, do not have uniform terms and conditions, and are entered into based upon the creditworthiness of the parties and the availability of credit support, such as collateral, and in general, they are not transferable without the consent of the counterparty. These conditions diminish the ability to realize the full value of such contracts. Risk of Trading in International Markets Trading in international markets would expose US12OF to credit and regulatory risk. The General Partner invests primarily in Futures Contracts, a significant portion of which are traded on United States exchanges, including the NYMEX. However, a portion of US12OF’s trades may take place on markets and exchanges outside the United States. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. None of the CFTC, NFA, or any domestic exchange regulates activities of any foreign boards of trade or exchanges, including the execution, delivery and clearing of transactions, nor has the power to compel enforcement of the rules of a foreign board of trade or exchange or of any applicable non-U.S. laws. Similarly, the rights of market participants, such as US12OF, in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a non-U.S. market or broker are also likely to be more limited than in the case of U.S. markets or brokers. As a result, in these markets, US12OF has less legal and regulatory protection than it does when it trades domestically. In some of these non-U.S. markets, the performance on a contract is the responsibility of the counterparty and is not backed by an exchange or clearing corporation and therefore exposes US12OF to credit risk. Trading in non-U.S. markets also leaves US12OF susceptible to swings in the value of the local currency against the U.S. dollar. Additionally, trading on non-U.S. exchanges is subject to the risks presented by exchange controls, expropriation, increased tax burdens and exposure to local economic declines and political instability. An adverse development with respect to any of these variables could reduce the profit or increase the loss earned on trades in the affected international markets. International trading activities subject US12OF to foreign exchange risk. The price of any non-U.S. Futures Contract, option on any non-U.S. Futures Contract, or other non-U.S. Crude Oil Interest and, therefore, the potential profit and loss on such contract, may be affected by any variance in the foreign exchange rate between the time the order is placed and the time it is liquidated, offset or exercised. As a result, changes in the value of the local currency relative to the U.S. dollar may cause losses to US12OF even if the contract traded is profitable. US12OF’s international trading could expose it to losses resulting from non-U.S. exchanges that are less developed or less reliable than United States exchanges. Some non-U.S. exchanges may be in a more developmental stage so that prior price histories may not be indicative of current price dynamics. In addition, US12OF may not have the same access to certain positions on foreign trading exchanges as do local traders, and the historical market data on which the General Partner bases its strategies may not be as reliable or accessible as it is for U.S. exchanges. 57 Tax Risk An investor’s tax liability may exceed the amount of distributions, if any, on its units. Cash or property will be distributed at the sole discretion of the General Partner. The General Partner has not and does not currently intend to make cash or other distributions with respect to units. Investors will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax and, in some cases, state, local, or foreign income tax, on their allocable share of US12OF’s taxable income, without regard to whether they receive distributions or the amount of any distributions. Therefore, the tax liability of an investor with respect to its units may exceed the amount of cash or value of property (if any) distributed. An investor’s allocable share of taxable income or loss may differ from its economic income or loss on its units. Due to the application of the assumptions and conventions applied by US12OF in making allocations for tax purposes and other factors, an investor’s allocable share of US12OF’s income, gain, deduction or loss may be different than its economic profit or loss from its units for a taxable year. This difference could be temporary or permanent and, if permanent, could result in it being taxed on amounts in excess of its economic income. Items of income, gain, deduction, loss and credit with respect to units could be reallocated if the IRS does not accept the assumptions and conventions applied by US12OF in allocating those items, with potential adverse consequences for an investor. The U.S. tax rules pertaining to partnerships are complex and their application to large, publicly traded partnerships such as US12OF is in many respects uncertain. US12OF applies certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with the intent of the applicable rules and to report taxable income, gains, deductions, losses and credits in a manner that properly reflects unitholders’ economic gains and losses. These assumptions and conventions may not fully comply with all aspects of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) and applicable Treasury Regulations, however, and it is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will successfully challenge US12OF’s allocation methods and require US12OF to reallocate items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit in a manner that adversely affects investors. If this occurs, investors may be required to file an amended tax return and to pay additional taxes plus deficiency interest. US12OF could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which may substantially reduce the value of the units. US12OF has received an opinion of counsel that, under current U.S. federal income tax laws, US12OF will be treated as a partnership that is not taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, provided that (i) at least 90 percent of US12OF’s annual gross income consists of “qualifying income” as defined in the Code, (ii) US12OF is organized and operated in accordance with its governing agreements and applicable law and (iii) US12OF does not elect to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although the General Partner anticipates that US12OF has satisfied and will continue to satisfy the “qualifying income” requirement for all of its taxable years, that result cannot be assured. US12OF has not requested and will not request any ruling from the IRS with respect to its classification as a partnership not taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully assert that US12OF is taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes in any taxable year, rather than passing through its income, gains, losses and deductions proportionately to unitholders, US12OF would be subject to tax on its net income for the year at corporate tax rates. In addition, although the General Partner does not currently intend to make distributions with respect to units, any distributions would be taxable to unitholders as dividend income. Taxation of US12OF as a corporation could materially reduce the after-tax return on an investment in units and could substantially reduce the value of the units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 58 