Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Real Estate Operations A decrease in demand for new housing in the markets where we operate could decrease our profitability. The residential development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, such as employment levels, availability of financing for home buyers, interest rates, consumer confidence and housing demand. Adverse changes in these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand for lots for new homes in these areas. The current market conditions include a general over-supply of housing, decreased sales volumes for both new and existing homes, and flat home prices. There also has been significant tightening of mortgage credit standards, decreasing the availability of mortgage loans to acquire new and existing homes. A further decline in housing demand could negatively affect our real estate development activities, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, the market value of undeveloped land and lots held by us can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and real estate market conditions. If there are significant adverse changes in economic or real estate market conditions, we may have to hold land in inventory longer than planned. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or lower returns. Development of real estate entails a lengthy, uncertain, and costly entitlement process. Approval to develop real property entails an extensive entitlement process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local governments. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects must generally comply with local land development regulations and may need to comply with state and federal regulations. The process to comply with these regulations is usually lengthy and costly, may not result in the approvals we seek, and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities. 19 Table of Contents Our real estate development operations are currently concentrated in the major markets of Texas, and a significant portion of our undeveloped land holdings are concentrated in Georgia. As a result, our financial results are dependent on the economic growth and strength of those areas. The economic growth and strength of Texas, where the majority of our real estate development activity is located, are important factors in sustaining demand for our real estate development activities. As a result, any adverse change to the economic growth and health of those areas could materially adversely affect our financial results. The future economic growth in certain portions of Georgia in particular may be adversely affected if its infrastructure, such as roads, utilities, and schools, are not improved to meet increased demand. There can be no assurance that these improvements will occur. Our real estate development operations are highly dependent upon national, regional, and local homebuilders, as well as other strategic partners, who may have interests that differ from ours and may take actions that adversely affect us. We are highly dependent upon our relationships with national, regional, and local homebuilders to purchase lots in our residential developments. If homebuilders do not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, our business will be adversely affected. Also, a national homebuilder could decide to delay purchases of lots in one of our developments due to adverse real estate conditions wholly unrelated to our areas of operations. We are also involved in strategic alliances or venture relationships as part of our overall strategy for particular developments or regions. These venture partners may bring development experience, industry expertise, financing capabilities, and local credibility or other competitive attributes. Strategic partners, however, may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation of a strategic partner deteriorates. A formal agreement with a venture partner may also involve special risks, such as: we may not have voting control over the venture; the venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments; the venture partner could experience financial difficulties; and actions by a venture partner may subject property owned by the venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the venture agreement or have other adverse consequences. Our customers may be unwilling or unable to meet lot takedown commitments due to liquidity limitations or slowing market conditions. We enter into contracts to sell lots to builders. Home mortgage credit standards have tightened substantially and many markets have excess housing inventory so fewer new houses are being constructed and sold. Some builders are experiencing liquidity shortfalls and may be unwilling or unable to close on previously committed lot purchases. As a result, we may sell fewer lots and may have lower sales revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Delays or failures by third parties to take expected actions could reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses on certain real estate development projects. We rely on governmental utility and special improvement districts to issue bonds as a revenue source for the districts to reimburse us for qualified expenses, such as road and utility infrastructure costs. Bonds must be supported by districts tax revenues, usually from ad valorem taxes. Slowing new home sales, decreasing real estate prices or difficult credit markets for bond sales can reduce or delay district bond sale revenues, causing such districts to delay reimbursement of our qualified expenses. Failure to receive timely reimbursement for qualified expenses could reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses on certain real estate development projects. 20 Table of Contents We are unable to control the approval or timing of reimbursements or other payments from the special public improvement district (SPID) in which our Cibolo Canyons project is located. Delays or failure by the SPID to approve infrastructure costs for reimbursement or to issue bonds could negatively impact the timing of our future cash flows. The SPID in which our Cibolo Canyons project is located is an independent governmental entity not affiliated with us. The SPID has an elected governing board comprised of members living within the district, none of whom are affiliated with us. Reimbursement of our infrastructure costs, and timing of payment, is subject to approval and determination by the SPID. The SPID is also obligated to pay to us certain amounts generated from hotel occupancy revenues and other resort sales revenues collected as taxes by the SPID within the district. The amount of revenues collected by the SPID will be impacted by hotel occupancy and resort sales, each of which could be lower than projected. The timing of these payments will be impacted by decisions made by the SPID in regard to whether and when to issue bonds that would generate funds to support payments to us. Decisions by the SPID to delay approval of reimbursements or issuance of bonds could negatively impact the timing of our future cash flows. Risks Related to our Mineral Resources Operations We cannot control activities on oil or gas properties we do not operate. We do not operate any of the properties in which we have oil or gas mineral interests and have very limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. The success and timing of drilling, development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control, including the operator’s expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants for drilling wells and utilization of technology. Volatile oil and gas prices could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Our cash flows and results of operations are dependent in part on oil and gas prices, which are volatile. Any substantial or extended decline in the price of oil and gas could have a negative impact on our business operations and future revenues. Moreover, oil and gas prices depend on factors we cannot control, such as: changes in foreign and domestic supply and demand for oil and gas; actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; weather; political conditions in other oil-producing countries, including the possibility of insurgency or war in such areas; prices of foreign exports; availability of alternate fuel sources; the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major currencies; and governmental regulations. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex involving decisions and assumptions in evaluating the available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. Accordingly, these estimates are imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves might vary from those estimated. Any variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of proved developed reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Changes in environmental or other regulations for extraction of oil or gas could reduce our mineral resource revenues. An increasing amount of our mineral resources revenue is dependent on newer technologies for extraction of oil or natural gas, specifically hydraulic fracturing. Changes in environmental or other regulations governing hydraulic fracturing could substantially increase the cost or risk associated with extracting oil or gas from our mineral interests, resulting in lower production from our minerals or reduced demand for leasing our minerals. Such changes could result in reduced mineral resources revenues. 21 Table of Contents Additionally, the U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. The sponsors of the bills have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process as well as additional levels of regulation that could lead to operational restrictions and delays and increased operating costs. The standardized measure of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated reserves. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. As required by SEC regulations, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect at the time of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our properties will be affected by numerous factors not subject to our control. The timing of production will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flow, which is required by the SEC, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. General Risks Related to our Operations Both our real estate and mineral resources businesses are cyclical in nature. The operating results of our business segments reflect the general cyclical pattern of each segment. While the cycles of each industry do not necessarily coincide, demand and prices in each may drop substantially in an economic downturn. Real estate development of residential lots is further influenced by new home construction activity. Mineral resources may be further influenced by national and international commodity prices, principally for oil and gas. Cyclical downturns may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The real estate and mineral resource industries are highly competitive and a number of entities with which we compete are larger and have greater resources, and competitive conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. The real estate and mineral resource industries in which we operate are highly competitive and are affected to varying degrees by supply and demand factors and economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, new housing starts, home repair and remodeling activities, credit availability, housing affordability and federal energy policies. No single company is dominant in any of our industries. We compete with numerous regional and local developers for the acquisition, entitlement, and development of land suitable for development. We also compete with some of our national and regional home builder customers who develop real estate for their own use in homebuilding operations, many of which are larger and have greater resources, including greater marketing and technology budgets. Any improvement in the cost structure or service of our competitors will increase the competition we face. The competitive conditions in the real estate industry may result in difficulties acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices, lower sales volumes and prices, increased development costs, and delays in construction. Our business and results of operations are negatively affected by the existence of these conditions. 22 Table of Contents Our activities are subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. Compliance with these provisions may result in delays, may cause us to invest substantial funds to ensure compliance with applicable environmental regulations and can prohibit or severely restrict real estate development or mineral production activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. Significant reductions in cash flow from slowing real estate, mineral resources or fiber resources market conditions could lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility. Under our senior credit facility, we have a $125 million term loan and a revolving line of credit. Our senior credit facility matures December 1, 2010, although we have the option to extend the maturity through June 12, 2012. At year-end 2009, we had drawn $125 million of the term loan and no borrowings under the revolving line of credit resulting in a net unused borrowing capacity of $203 million. Amounts due under our senior credit facility are secured by certain of our assets. For a further description of our senior credit facility, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources and Liquidity — Liquidity and Contractual Obligations.” We must comply with various covenants contained in our senior credit facility, and any other future debt arrangements. Significant reductions in cash flow from slowing real estate, mineral resources or fiber resources market conditions could lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility, and ultimately limiting our ability to comply with our debt covenants. If we fail to comply with the terms of any of our debt covenants, our lenders will have the right to accelerate the maturity of that debt and foreclose upon the collateral securing that debt. Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Debt within some of our ventures may not be renewed or may be difficult or more expensive to replace. Some of our ventures have debt, a substantial portion of which is non-recourse to us. Many lenders have substantially curtailed or ceased making real estate acquisition and development loans. When debt within our ventures matures, some of our ventures may be unable to renew existing loans or secure replacement financing, or replacement financing may be more expensive. If our ventures are unable to renew existing loans or secure replacement financing, we may be required to contribute additional equity to our ventures which could increase our risk or increase our borrowings under our senior credit facility, or both. If our ventures secure replacement financing that is more expensive, our profits may be reduced. Our lenders may be unable or unwilling to fund their commitments under our senior credit facility. Our senior credit facility includes a revolving line of credit under which we regularly draw funds as required for routine operating liquidity. Some U.S. financial institutions are having difficulty maintaining regulatory capital at levels required for additional lending, and some institutions are experiencing liquidity shortfalls. If some of the lenders participating in our senior credit facility fail to meet their funding commitments, we could be required to borrow from other sources at a higher cost or we may be required to monetize some of our assets to meet our liquidity requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The current turmoil in the credit markets could limit demand for our products, and affect the overall availability and cost of credit. At this time, it is unclear whether and to what extent actions taken by the U.S. government will mitigate the effects of the current turmoil in the credit markets and in the economy generally. Demand for our products could be limited by the reduction in availability or increased cost of credit. While we have no immediate need to access the credit markets, the impact of the current turmoil on our ability to obtain financing in the future, and the cost and terms of financing, is unclear. No assurances can be given that the effects of the current 23 Table of Contents credit markets turmoil will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We have only a limited operating history as an independent, publicly-traded company upon which you can evaluate our performance, and accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any newly independent company encounters. We have only a limited experience operating as an independent, publicly-traded company. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stages of independent business operations, particularly companies such as ours in highly competitive markets. Our historical financial information prior to 2008 is not necessarily indicative of our results as a separate company and, therefore, may not be reliable as an indicator of our future financial results. Our historical financial information prior to 2008 has been created using our historical results of operations and historical bases of assets and liabilities as part of Temple-Inland. This historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been if we had been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. It also is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future and does not reflect many significant changes that have occurred in our capital structure, funding, and operations as a result of the spin-off. While our historical results of operations prior to 2008 include all costs of Temple-Inland’s real estate development and minerals operations, our historical costs and expenses prior to 2008 do not include all of the costs that would have been or will be incurred by us as an independent, publicly-traded company. If the spin-off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Temple-Inland has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment under applicable sections of the Code. In addition, Temple-Inland has received an opinion from tax counsel that the spin-off so qualifies. The IRS ruling and the opinion rely on certain representations, assumptions, and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the IRS ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions, and undertakings were incorrect. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion, the IRS could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions, or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, under a tax matters agreement between Temple-Inland and us, we may be required to indemnify Temple-Inland against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. If we are required to indemnify Temple-Inland or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax matters agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 