Item 1A. Risk Factors. General Risks Related to our Operations Both our real estate and mineral resources businesses are cyclical in nature. The operating results of our business segments reflect the general cyclical pattern of each segment. While the cycles of each industry do not necessarily coincide, demand and prices in each may drop substantially in an economic downturn. Real estate development of residential lots is further influenced by new home construction activity. Mineral resources may be further influenced by national and international commodity prices, principally for oil and natural gas. Cyclical downturns may materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to achieve some or all of our Triple in FOR strategic initiatives. In 2012, we announced Triple in FOR, new strategic initiatives designed to further enhance shareholder value by accelerating value realization of our real estate and natural resources, optimizing transparency and disclosure, and raising net asset value through strategic and disciplined investments. Our initiatives include: increasing total residential lot sales; increasing oil and gas production; increasing total segment earnings; expanding reported oil and gas resource potential; providing additional information regarding groundwater interests; establishing a progress report on corporate responsibility; pursing growth opportunities which help prove up our asset value and meeting return expectations; developing a low-capital, high-return multifamily business; and accelerating investment in lower-risk oil and gas opportunities. All of these activities and initiatives have inherent risks and there remain significant challenges and uncertainties, including economic and general business conditions, that could limit our ability to achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced strategic initiatives and affect our financial results. We may not achieve any or all of these goals and are unable to predict whether these initiatives will produce significant revenues, profits or increases in net asset value. The real estate and mineral resource industries are highly competitive and a number of entities with which we compete are larger and have greater resources, and competitive conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. The real estate and mineral resource industries in which we operate are highly competitive and are affected to varying degrees by supply and demand factors and economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, new housing starts, home repair and remodeling activities, credit availability, consumer confidence, unemployment, housing affordability and federal energy policies. The competitive conditions in the real estate industry may result in difficulties acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices, lower sales volumes and prices, increased development costs and delays in construction. We compete with numerous regional and local developers for the acquisition, entitlement, and development of land suitable for development. We also compete with some of our national and regional home builder customers who develop real estate for their own use in homebuilding operations, many of which are larger and have greater resources, including greater marketing and technology budgets. Any improvement in the cost structure or service of our competitors will increase the competition we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected by any of these factors. 22 Table of Contents Our activities are subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. Compliance with these provisions may result in delays, may cause us to invest substantial funds to ensure compliance with applicable environmental regulations and can prohibit or severely restrict timber harvesting, real estate development or mineral production activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. Significant reductions in cash flow from slowing real estate, mineral resources or fiber resources market conditions could lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility. We must comply with various covenants contained in our senior secured credit facility, and any other future debt arrangements. Significant reductions in cash flow from slowing real estate, mineral resources or fiber resources market conditions could require us to increase borrowing levels under our revolving loans under our senior secured credit facility and lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility, and ultimately limiting our ability to comply with our debt covenants. Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Restrictive covenants under our senior secured credit facility may limit the manner in which we operate. Our senior secured credit facility contains various covenants and conditions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; • make loans, investments or acquisitions; • incur restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create liens; • merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and • transfer or sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Debt within some of our ventures may not be renewed or may be difficult or more expensive to replace. Some of our ventures have their own debt. Many lenders have substantially curtailed or ceased making real estate acquisition and development loans. When debt within our ventures matures, some of our ventures may be unable to renew existing loans or secure replacement financing, or replacement financing may be more expensive. If our ventures are unable to renew existing loans or secure replacement financing, we may be required to contribute additional equity to our ventures which could increase our risk or increase our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, or both. If our ventures secure replacement financing that is more expensive, our profits may be reduced. Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Current global financial conditions and recent market events have been characterized by increased volatility and the resulting tightening of the credit and capital markets has reduced the amount of available liquidity and overall economic activity. We cannot assure you that debt or equity financing, the ability to borrow funds or cash 23 Table of Contents generated by operations will be available or sufficient to meet or satisfy our initiatives, objectives or requirements. Our inability to access sufficient amounts of capital on terms acceptable to us for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel. These individuals have extensive experience and expertise in our business segments in which they work. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our success will be dependent on our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled personnel in each of our business segments. If the spin-off of Forestar Group from Temple-Inland is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Temple-Inland has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that the spin-off of Forestar Group from Temple-Inland in 2007 qualifies for tax-free treatment under applicable sections of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. In addition, Temple-Inland has received an opinion from tax counsel that the spin-off so qualifies. The IRS ruling and the opinion rely on certain representations, assumptions, and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the IRS ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions, and undertakings were incorrect. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion, the IRS could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions, or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, under a tax matters agreement between Temple-Inland and us, we may be required to indemnify Temple-Inland against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. If we are required to indemnify Temple-Inland or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax matters agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. Risks Related to our Real Estate Operations A continued decrease in demand for new housing or commercial tracts in the markets where we operate could decrease our profitability. The residential development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, such as employment levels, availability of financing for home buyers, interest rates, consumer confidence and housing demand. Adverse changes in these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand for lots for new homes in these areas. The current market conditions include a general over-supply of housing, decreased sales volumes for both new and existing homes, and flat or declining home prices. There also has been significant tightening of mortgage credit standards, decreasing the availability of mortgage loans to acquire new and existing homes. A further decline in housing demand could negatively affect our real estate development activities, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, the market value of undeveloped land and lots held by us, including commercial tracts, can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and real estate market conditions. If there are significant adverse changes in economic or real estate market conditions, we may have to hold land in inventory longer than planned. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or lower returns and adversely affect our liquidity. Development of real estate entails a lengthy, uncertain, and costly entitlement process. Approval to develop real property entails an extensive entitlement process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local governments. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects must generally comply with local land development regulations and may need to comply with state and 24 Table of Contents federal regulations. The process to comply with these regulations is usually lengthy and costly, may not result in the approvals we seek, and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities, which may adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our real estate development operations are currently concentrated in the major markets of Texas, and a significant portion of our undeveloped land holdings are concentrated in Georgia. As a result, our financial results are dependent on the economic growth and strength of those areas. The economic growth and strength of Texas, where the majority of our real estate development activity is located, are important factors in sustaining demand for our real estate development activities. Further, the future economic growth and real estate development opportunities in broad area around Atlanta, Georgia may be adversely affected if its infrastructure, such as roads, utilities, and schools, are not improved to meet increased demand. There can be no assurance that these improvements will occur. As a result, any adverse impact to the economic growth and health, or infrastructure development, of those areas could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our real estate development operations are highly dependent upon national, regional and local homebuilders. We are highly dependent upon our relationships with national, regional, and local homebuilders to purchase lots in our residential developments. If homebuilders do not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, we enter into contracts to sell lots to builders. A builder could decide to delay purchases of lots in one of our developments due to adverse real estate conditions wholly unrelated to our areas of operations, such as the corporate decisions regarding allocation of limited capital or human resources. Further, home mortgage credit standards have tightened substantially and many markets have excess housing inventory so fewer new houses are being constructed and sold. As a result, some builders are experiencing liquidity shortfalls and may be unwilling or unable to close on previously committed lot purchases and, upon the occurrence of any such event, we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover any damages from such builders. As a result, we may sell fewer lots and may have lower sales revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our strategic partners may have interests that differ from ours and may take actions that adversely affect us. We enter into strategic alliances or venture relationships as part of our overall strategy for particular developments or regions. While these partners may bring development experience, industry expertise, financing capabilities, and local credibility or other competitive attributes, they may also have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation or financial condition of a partner deteriorates. A formal agreement with a partner may also involve special risks, such as: we may not have voting control over the venture; the venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments; the venture partner could experience financial difficulties and actions by a venture partner may subject property owned by the venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the venture agreement or have other adverse consequences. As a result, actions by a partner may have the result of subjecting venture property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated by the terms of the applicable agreement or have other adverse consequences. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any such arrangements will achieve the results anticipated or otherwise prove successful. Our partners’ inability to fund their capital commitments and otherwise fulfill their operating and financial obligations related to a venture could have an adverse effect on the venture and us. When we enter into a venture, we may rely on our venture partner to fund its share of capital commitments to the venture and to otherwise fulfill its operating and financial obligations. Failure of a venture partner to 25 Table of Contents timely satisfy its funding or other obligations to the venture could require us to elect whether to increase our financial or other operating support of the venture in order to preserve our investment, which may reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses, or to not fund such obligations, which may subject the venture and us to adverse consequences. Delays or failures by governmental authorities to take expected actions could reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses on certain real estate development projects. We rely on governmental utility and special improvement districts to issue bonds as a revenue source for the districts to reimburse us for qualified expenses, such as road and utility infrastructure costs. Bonds must be supported by districts tax revenues, usually from ad valorem taxes. Slowing new home sales, decreasing real estate prices or difficult credit markets for bond sales can reduce or delay district bond sale revenues, causing such districts to delay reimbursement of our qualified expenses. Failure to receive timely reimbursement for qualified expenses could adversely affect our cash flows and reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses on certain real estate development projects. We are unable to control the approval or timing of reimbursements or other payments from the special improvement district (“SID”) in which our Cibolo Canyons project is located. Delays or failure by the SID to approve infrastructure costs for reimbursement or to issue bonds, or lower than expected revenues generated from taxes, could negatively impact the timing of our future cash flows. The SID in which our Cibolo Canyons project is located is an independent governmental entity not affiliated with us. The SID has an elected governing board comprised of members living within the district, none of whom are affiliated with us. Reimbursement of our infrastructure costs, and timing of payment, is subject to approval and determination by the SID. The SID is also obligated to pay to us certain amounts generated from hotel occupancy revenues and other resort sales revenues collected as taxes by the SID within the district. The amount of revenues collected by the SID will be impacted by hotel occupancy and resort sales, each of which could be lower than projected. If the revenues collected by the SID are lower than expected, then the amount of our future cash flows from the SID could be adversely affected. The amount and timing of receipts form the SID will be impacted by decisions made by the SID in regard to whether and when to issue bonds that would generate funds to support payments to us. Decisions by the SID to delay approval of reimbursements or issuance of bonds could negatively impact the timing of our future cash flows. Unfavorable changes in apartment markets and economic conditions could adversely affect multifamily occupancy levels and rental rates. Market and economic conditions may significantly affect multifamily occupancy levels and rental rates and therefore profitability. In general, factors that may adversely affect market and economic conditions include the following: • the economic climate, which may be adversely impacted by a reduction in jobs, industry slowdowns and other factors; • local conditions, such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, apartment homes; • declines in household formation; • favorable residential mortgage rates; • rent control or stabilization laws, or other laws regulating rental housing, which could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and • competition from other available apartments and other housing alternatives and changes in market rental rates. Any of these factors would adversely affect our ability to achieve desired operating results from our multifamily communities. 26 Table of Contents Development and construction risks could impact our profitability. We may develop and construct multifamily communities through wholly-owned projects or through ventures with unaffiliated parties. Our development and construction activities may be exposed to the following risks: • we may incur construction costs for a property that exceed original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other costs or unforeseen environmental conditions, which could make completion of the property uneconomical, and we may not be able to increase rents to compensate for the increase in construction costs; • we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule and meet financial goals for development projects; and • because occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, we may be unable to meet our profitability goals for that community. Possible difficulty of selling multifamily communities could limit our operational and financial flexibility. Purchasers may not be willing to pay acceptable prices for multifamily communities that we wish to sell. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things. Also, if we are unable to sell multifamily communities or if we can only sell multifamily communities at prices lower than are generally acceptable, then we may have to take on additional leverage in order to provide adequate capital to execute our business strategy. Increased competition and increased affordability of residential homes could limit our ability to retain residents, lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents. Our multifamily communities compete with numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including other multifamily communities and single-family rental homes, as well as owner occupied single and multifamily homes. Competitive housing in a particular area and the increasing affordability of owner occupied single and multifamily homes caused by declining housing prices, mortgage interest rates and government programs to promote home ownership could adversely affect our ability to retain residents, lease apartment homes and increase or maintain rents. Acquired multifamily development sites and communities may not achieve anticipated results. We may selectively acquire multifamily communities that meet our investment criteria. Our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following risks: • an acquired community may fail to achieve expected occupancy and rental rates and may fail to perform as expected; • we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations; • our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping the acquired property may prove inaccurate, causing us to fail to meet profitability goals; and • we may be unable to obtain third party co-investment for development of communities. Failure to succeed in new markets may limit our growth. We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. Our historical experience in existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including, among others: • an inability to evaluate accurately local apartment or housing market conditions and local economies; • an inability to obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; 27 Table of Contents • an inability to hire and retain key personnel; and • lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. Risks Related to our Mineral Resources Operations We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate and are unable to ensure their proper operation and profitability. The properties in which we have an interest are currently operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties other than drilling requirements in the lease. Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs and materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, operators determine when and where to drill wells and we have no influence over these decisions. The success and timing of the drilling and development activities on our properties therefore depends upon a number of factors currently outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology, and the operators of our properties may not have the same financial and other resources as other oil and natural gas companies with whom they compete. Further, new wells may not be productive or may not produce at a level to enable us to recover all or any portion of our capital investment where we have a non-operating working interest. Volatile oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Our cash flows and results of operations are dependent in part on oil and natural gas prices, which are volatile. Oil and natural gas prices also impact the amounts we receive for selling and renewing our mineral leases. Moreover, oil and natural gas prices depend on factors we cannot control, such as: changes in foreign and domestic supply and demand for oil and natural gas; actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; weather; political conditions in other oil-producing countries, including the possibility of insurgency or war in such areas; prices of foreign exports; domestic and international drilling activity; price and availability of alternate fuel sources; the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major currencies; the level and effect of trading in commodity markets; the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures and governmental regulations. Any substantial or extended decline in the price of oil and natural gas could have a negative impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The ability to sell and deliver oil and natural gas produced from wells on our mineral interests could be materially and adversely affected if adequate gathering, processing, compression and transportation services are not obtained. The sale of oil and natural gas produced from wells on our mineral interests depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities owned by third parties. These facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions, and may not be available in the future on terms the operator considers acceptable, if at all. Any significant change in market or other conditions affecting these facilities or the availability of these facilities, including due to the failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities on terms acceptable to the operator or at all, could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our reserves and production will decline from their current levels. The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are produced. Our reserves will decline as they are produced which could materially and adversely affect our future cash flow, liquidity and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents A portion of our oil and natural gas production may be subject to interruptions that could have a material and adverse effect on us. A portion of oil and natural gas production from our mineral interests may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including as a result of accidents, weather conditions, loss of gathering, processing, compression or transportation facility access or field labor issues, or intentionally as a result of market conditions such as oil and natural gas prices that the operators of our mineral leases, whose decisions we do not control, deem uneconomic. If a substantial amount of production is interrupted, our business, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may acquire properties that are not as commercially productive as we initially believed. From time to time, we seek to acquire oil and natural gas properties. Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor may they permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Even when problems with a property are identified, we may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements. Moreover, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties. Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be materially and adversely affected by unexpected liabilities. The exploration for, and production of, oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can damage or destroy wells or production facilities, result in injury or death, and damage property and the environment. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operations on our property in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable. In addition, we require third party operators to maintain customary and commercially practicable types and limits of insurance, but potential losses or liabilities may not be covered by such third party’s insurance which may subject us to liability as the mineral estate owner. The occurrence of any of these events and any costs or liabilities incurred as a result of such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex involving decisions and assumptions in evaluating the available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. Accordingly, these estimates are imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves might vary from those estimated. Any variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of proved developed reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The estimates of our reserves as of December 31, 2011 are based upon various assumptions about future production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be correct over time. In particular, estimates of oil and gas reserves, future net revenue from proved reserves and the standardized measure thereof for our oil and gas interests are based on the assumption that future oil and gas prices remain the same as the twelve month first-day-of-the-month average oil and gas prices for the year ended December 31, 2011. The average realized sales prices as of such date used for purposes of such estimates were $4.12 per MMBTU of natural gas and $92.71 per 29 Table of Contents barrel of oil. The December 31, 2011 estimates also assume that the working interest owners will make future capital expenditures which are necessary to develop and realize the value of proved reserves. The standardized measure of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated reserves. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. As required by SEC regulations, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect at the time of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our properties will be affected by numerous factors not subject to our control and will be affected by factors such as: • decisions and activities of the well operators; • supply of and demand for oil and gas; • actual prices we receive for oil and gas; • actual operating costs; • the amount and timing of capital expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of production will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flow, which is required by the SEC, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Weather and climate may have a significant and adverse impact on us. Demand for natural gas is, to a significant degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts, among other things, the price we receive for the commodities produced from wells on our mineral interests and, in turn, our cash flow and results of operations. For example, relatively warm temperatures during a winter season generally result in relatively lower demand for natural gas, higher inventory (as less natural gas is used to heat residences and businesses) and, as a result, relatively lower prices for natural gas production. Changes in environmental or other regulations for extraction of oil or natural gas could reduce our mineral resources revenue. An increasing amount of our mineral resources revenue is dependent on newer technologies for extraction of oil or natural gas, specifically hydraulic fracturing. Changes in environmental or other regulations governing hydraulic fracturing could substantially increase the cost or risk associated with extracting oil or natural gas from our mineral interests, resulting in lower production from our minerals or reduced demand for leasing our minerals. Such changes could result in reduced mineral resources revenues. Additionally, the U.S. federal government is currently considering legislation and regulations to, among other things, require hydraulic fracturing operations to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements and to disclose the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. It has been asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. Such regulations would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process and could lead to operational restrictions and delays and increased operating costs. Any such new legislation or regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional burdens that could increase the costs and delay the development of our oil and natural 30 Table of Contents gas resources which are not commercially producible without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Hydraulic fracturing, the process used for extracting oil and gas from shale and other formations, has recently come under increased scrutiny and could be the subject of further regulation that could impact the timing and cost of development. The Underground Injection Control, or UIC, regulation promulgated under the provisions of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, or the SDWA, exclude hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection.” However, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, is now re-evaluating hydraulic fracturing and the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives are currently considering bills entitled the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, or the FRAC Act, to amend the SDWA to repeal this exemption. If enacted, the FRAC Act would amend the definition of “underground injection” in the SDWA to encompass hydraulic fracturing activities, which could require hydraulic fracturing operations to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping obligations, and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. The FRAC Act also proposes to require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. Hydraulic fracturing is the primary production method used to extract reserves located in many of the unconventional oil and gas plays in the United States. Depending on the legislation that may ultimately be enacted or the regulations that may be adopted at the federal, state and/or provincial levels, exploration, exploitation and production activities that entail hydraulic fracturing could be subject to additional regulation and permitting requirements. Individually or collectively, such new legislation or regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional burdens that could increase the costs and delay the development of unconventional oil and gas resources from formations that are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could have an adverse effect on the operators conducting activities on our minerals, and on the cash flows we receive from them. A significant portion of our Louisiana net mineral acres are subject to prescription of non-use under Louisiana law. A significant portion of our Louisiana net mineral acres were severed from surface ownership and retained by creation of one or more mineral servitudes shortly before our spin-off. Under Louisiana law, a mineral servitude that is not producing minerals or which has not been the subject of good-faith drilling operations will cease to burden the property upon the tenth anniversary of the date of its creation. Upon such event, the mineral rights effectively will revert to the surface owner and we will no longer own the right to lease, explore for or produce minerals from such acreage. Our water interests may require governmental permits, the consent of third parties and/or completion of significant transportation infrastructure prior to commercialization, all of which are dependent on the actions of others. Many jurisdictions require governmental permits to withdraw and transport water for commercial uses, the granting of which may be subject to discretionary determinations by such jurisdictions regarding necessity. In addition, we do not own the executory rights related to our non-participating royalty interest, and as a result, third-party consent from the executor rights owner(s) would be required prior to production. The process to obtain permits can be lengthy, and governmental jurisdictions or third parties from whom we seek permits or consent may not provide the approvals we seek. We may be unable to secure a buyer at commercially economic prices for water that we have a right to extract and transport, and transportation infrastructure across property not owned or controlled by us is required for transport of water prior to commercial use. Such infrastructure can require significant capital and may also require the consent of third parties. We may not have cost effective means to transport water from property we own, lease or manage to buyers. As a result, we may lose some or all of our investment in water assets, or our returns may be diminished. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Fiber Resources Operations If the Temple-Inland mill complex in Rome, Georgia were to permanently cease operations, the price we receive for our wood fiber may decline, and the cost of delivering logs to alternative customers could increase. Prior to our 2007 spin-off from Temple-Inland, recently acquired by International Paper, we entered into an agreement to sell wood fiber to Temple-Inland at market prices, primarily for use at Temple-Inland’s Rome, Georgia mill complex. The agreement expires in 2013, although the purchase and sale commitments (including the sale price) are established annually based on our annual harvest plan. A significant portion of our fiber resources revenues are generated though this agreement. The Temple-Inland Rome mill complex is a significant consumer of wood fiber within the immediate area in which a substantial portion of our Georgia timberlands are located. If the Temple-Inland mill complex in Rome, Georgia was to permanently cease operations, was not willing to pay for wood fiber at a price we deem acceptable or was to cease purchasing wood fiber from us after the expiration of our agreement in 2013, we may not be able to enter into agreements with alternative customers for the wood fiber, any agreements with alternative customers we do enter into may be for lower rates than we currently receive from Temple-Inland and the cost of delivering wood fiber to such alternative customers could increase. Our ability to harvest and deliver timber may be affected by our sales of timberland and may be subject to other limitations, which could adversely affect our operations. We have sold over 217,000 acres of our timberland in accordance with our near-term strategic initiatives announced in 2009 and from our retail sales program, and we now own directly or through ventures about 131,000 acres with timber. Sales of our timberland reduce the amount of timber that we have available for harvest. In addition, weather conditions, timber growth cycles, access limitations, availability of contract loggers and haulers, and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict harvesting of timberlands as may other factors, including damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought, flooding and other natural disasters. Although damage from such natural causes usually is localized and affects only a limited percentage of the timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will in fact be so limited. As is common in the forest products industry, we do not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to our timberlands. The revenues, income and cash flow from operations for our fiber resources segment are dependent to a significant extent on the pricing of our products and our continued ability to harvest timber at adequate levels. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 