ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before deciding to buy our securities. While these are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider, you should know that they are not the only ones facing us. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In these circumstances, the value of our securities could decline, and investors could lose all or part of the money they paid to buy our securities. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this document, should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. The order of presentation of each risk factor is not indicative of the relative importance of such factor. Moreover, the following risk factors are not necessarily exhaustive of the risk factors necessary to make an investment decision. 23 A PENDING INVESTIGATION BY THE SEC COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS. The SEC has initiated a formal investigation primarily concerning the accuracy and adequacy of publicly-available information about the Company securities, including information in the market place regarding the number of the Company's issued and outstanding shares and market capitalization, and the Company's operations, as well as the trading activity in the market for the Company securities. The SEC investigation is ongoing and has required management time and the expenditure of significant legal expense. In addition, the Company faces the risk that the investigation will result in fines and/of penalties assessed against the Company for which there is inadequate insurance coverage. The result of this matter could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. WE ARE CURRENTLY WITHOUT SUFFICIENT FUNDS TO OPERATE. Since we do not have commercial operations which can generate revenues today, we are dependent on the proceeds of future offerings for working capital. Our officers and directors and their affiliates have been funding the Company’s operations since the suspension of trading in our securities which ended on December 31, 2008. We were otherwise unable to obtain funds to operate our business. The terms of the issuance of securities have significantly diluted the ownership percentage of existing shareholders. This has resulted in a significant decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities in 2009. We are currently without sufficient funds to implement our business plan and can operate only on a limited basis. There can be no assurance that any additional financings will be available to us or that adequate funds for our operations will be available when needed or on terms that are acceptable to us. The inability to secure additional financing would prevent us from continuing in business which would result in the loss of your investment in the Company. WE EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES FOR THE NEAR FUTURE. We project that we will continue to incur development and administrative expenses and operate at a loss for at least the next 12 months. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve sustained profitability. We cannot be certain whether or when this will occur because of the significant uncertainties with respect to our business. We cannot be certain that we will ever achieve profitability or be able to remain in business. OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HAVE BEEN PREPARED ASSUMING THAT THE COMPANY WILL CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. The accompanying financial statements to this report have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements, the Company’s accumulated deficit, lack of operations and sources of revenues raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph expressing doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern in their audit report dated July 21, 2009. 24 CURRENT ECONOMIC RECESSION COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY. The Company’s future operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses have reduced or postponed their product, services and advertising expenditures in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on our business. Other factors that could influence demand for our services and advertising revenues include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, the financial crisis, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for the Company’s services and on the Company’s financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Company’s prospective operations, including insolvency of industry partners, service providers, and contractors. While the ultimate outcome of these economic conditions cannot be predicted, they could have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to borrow money to finance operations were to be impaired. THE RESUMPTION OF QUOTATIONS AND TRADING OF OUR COMMON STOCK OVER THE OTCBB SHALL NOT RESUME UNLESS AND UNTIL FINRA APPROVES AN APPLICATION BY OUR BROKER-DEALERS UNDER F0RM 211. The SEC’s suspension of trading in our common stock which occurred on December 17, 2008, ended on December 31, 2008. However, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, brokers, dealers and market makers are prohibited from directly or indirectly offering or resuming quotations in our Common Stock on the OTC Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”), unless such market maker has strictly complied with Rule 15c2-11. As a result, quotations by broker-dealers and trading of our common stock over the OTCBB is not permitted to resume until FINRA has cleared an application (Form 211). FINRA reviewed such an application by one broker-dealer, however, did not resume quotations and trading of our common stock on the OTCBB and is unwilling to do so, without a new registration statement declared effective with the SEC. THERE IS CURRENTLY NO PUBLIC TRADING MARKET FOR OUR SECURITIES There is no public trading market for our securities. There can be no assurance that a market for our common stock will be established on the OTCBB or on any national securities exchange or market. If we do not maintain trading on the OTCBB or listing on an exchange or market and an active market in our common stock does not develop, it may be more difficult for stockholders to dispose of their common stock and could diminish significantly the market value of our common stock. Outstanding shares of our common stock cannot be offered, sold, pledged or otherwise transferred unless registered pursuant to, or exempt from registration under, the Securities Act and any other applicable federal or state securities laws or regulations. These restrictions will limit the ability of our stockholders to liquidate their investment. An aggregate of 15 million (pre reverse split) shares of common stock were registered for resale by selling shareholders pursuant to a prospectus dated April 10, 2008, as supplemented, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-149995 and were sold in connection with the Yatinoo Acquisition. 25 Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act is not available to our investors that hold unregistered stock until at least twelve months after we ceased to be a shell company, which occurred on or about November 19, 2008, when the Company filed Form 10 type information with the Commission. There can be no assurance that we will continue to fulfill in the future our reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, maintain the effectiveness of our registration statement(s), or disseminate to the public any current financial or other information concerning the Company. IF AN ACTIVE MARKET DEVELOPS FOR OUR COMMON STOCK, THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK IS LIKELY TO BE VOLATILE. Should trading of our common stock resume on the OTCBB and an active market develops, it is likely that the market price for our common stock will be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors, including announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by the Company or its competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to the Company, news reports relating to trends in the Company's markets, being subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception and fluctuations in our operating results and market conditions. In addition, the market prices for shares of smaller capitalization companies generally, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the Company's Common Stock, regardless of the Company's operating performance. OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE DEEMED A “PENNY STOCK,” WHICH WOULD MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR OUR INVESTORS TO SELL THEIR SHARES. It is expected that our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or other national securities exchange and trades at less than $4.00 per share or that have tangible net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. If our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. 26 PREFERRED STOCK AS AN ANTI-TAKEOVER DEVICE The Company is authorized to issue 5 million shares of preferred stock, $.001 par value. The preferred stock may be issued in series from time to time with such designation, voting and other rights, preferences and limitations as the board of directors of the Company may determine by resolution. Unless the nature of a particular transaction and applicable statutes require such approval, the board of directors has the authority to issue these shares without shareholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company without any further action by shareholders. BUSINESS RISKS WE HAVE A SHORT OPERATING HISTORY AND MAY BE SUBJECT TO ALL RISKS OF A NEW BUSINESS. The Company was founded in March 2007 and launched its service in October 2007 and therefore has a short operating history. As a result, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast our future operating performance. Our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if our revenue does not meet our projections. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, delays, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stage of development. Many of these factors are beyond our control, including unanticipated research and development expenses, employment costs, and administrative expenses. We cannot assure purchasers of our securities that our proposed business plans as described above under Item 1. “Business” will materialize or prove successful, or that we will ever be able to operate profitably. We may not be able to implement our business strategy successfully or to address the risks we face in a cost-effective manner. Our inability in either regard would have a material adverse effect on our business. OUR SERVICES ARE SUBJECT TO SYSTEMS FAILURES AS A RESULT OF CAPACITY CONSTRAINTS A key element of the Company's strategy is to generate a high volume of use of its online media properties. Accordingly, the performance of the Company's online media properties is critical to the Company's reputation, its ability to attract advertisers to the Company's Web sites and to achieve market acceptance of these products and media properties. Any system failure that causes interruption or an increase in response time of the Company's products and media properties could result in less traffic to the Company's Web sites and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of the Company's products and media properties to advertisers and licensees. An increase in the volume of queries conducted through the Company's products and media properties could strain the capacity of the software or hardware deployed by the Company, which could lead to slower response time or system failures, and adversely affect the number of impressions received by advertising and thus the Company's advertising revenues. In addition, as the number of Web pages and users increase, there can be no assurance that the Company's products and media properties and infrastructure will be able to scale accordingly. The Company also faces technical challenges associated with higher levels of personalization and localization of content delivered to users of its services, which adds strain to the Company's development and operational resources. The Company is also dependent upon Web browsers and Internet and online service providers for access to its products and media properties. Any disruption in the Internet access could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the Company is dependent on hardware suppliers for prompt delivery, installation and service of servers and other equipment used to deliver the Company's products and services. 27 The Company's operations are dependent in part upon its ability to protect its operating systems against physical damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. The Company has an Automatic Live Back-up System for the main servers. Despite the implementation of network security measures by the Company, its servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with the Company's computer systems. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to users of the Company's products and media properties, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. OUR PUBLIC IMAGE MAY SUFFER DUE TO A LACK OF BROAD ACCEPTANCE OUTSIDE OF THE ARABIC, AFRICAN AND ASIAN REGIONS The Company’s development plan relies on disseminating and perpetuating an image of professionalism and belonging in the international marketplace. In the event cultural bias and other factors result negatively affecting the public image of the Company, it is foreseeable that such misperception could negatively effect the business prospects of the Company in regions other than the Arabic, African, and Asian regions. Depending on the Company’s growth, it may be more difficult for the Company to address or exert a degree of control over any such potential public image related issues. OUR INDUSTRY CHANGES RAPIDLY DUE TO EVOLVING TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS AND OUR FUTURE SUCCESS WILL DEPEND ON OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO ENHANCE AND IMPROVE OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Our future success will depend on our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our website users by supporting existing and emerging search engine, software, database and website platforms, as well as maintaining pace with the explosive growth of Internet-related products and services, which are difficult to predict. We must develop and introduce enhancements to our existing products and services and new products and services on a timely basis to keep pace with technological developments, evolving industry standards and changing user interests and preferences. We expect that we will have to respond quickly to rapid technological change, changing user preferences, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards that may render existing products and services obsolete. As a result, our position in existing markets or potential markets could be eroded rapidly by technology advances of our competitors or our failure to keep up with industry-wide technological advances. We expect that these efforts will continue to require substantial investments. We may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 28 DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL The Company's performance is substantially dependent on the performance of its management and key technical personnel. In particular, the Company's success depends substantially on the continued efforts of its management team, which currently is composed of a small number of individuals who only recently joined the Company. The loss of the services of any of its executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition of the Company. We do not have employment agreements with any employees and do not maintain directors and officers’ liability insurance. If we are unable to obtain adequate directors and officers insurance, our ability to retain and recruit qualified directors and officers may be curtailed. The Company's future success also depends on its continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its key managerial and technical employees or that it will be able to attract and retain additional highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material and adverse effect upon the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. OUR FUTURE OPERATIONS COULD BE SUBJECT TO NEW LEGISLATION OR REGULATION The Company is not currently subject to direct regulation by any government agency in the United States, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally, and there are currently few laws or regulations directly applicable to access to or commerce on the Internet. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as user privacy, pricing and characteristics and quality of products and services. Any such new legislation or regulation or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. WE MAY BE LIABLE FOR UNINSURED CLAIMS Because materials may be downloaded by the online or Internet services operated or facilitated by the Company and may be subsequently distributed to others, there is a potential that claims will be made against the Company for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, personal injury or other theories based on the nature and content of such materials. Such claims have been brought, and sometimes successfully pressed against online services in the past. In addition, the Company could be exposed to liability with respect to the selection of listings that may be accessible through the Company's branded products and media properties, or through content and materials that may be posted by users in classifieds, bulletin board and chat room services offered by the Company. It is also possible that if any information provided through the Company's services, such as stock quotes, analyst estimates or other trading information, contains errors, third parties could make claims against the Company for losses incurred in reliance on such information. Also, to the extent that the Company provides users with information relating to purchases of goods and services, the Company or its operating subsidiaries could face claims relating to injuries or other damages arising from such goods and services; although the Company will carry general liability insurance, the Company's insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify the Company for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability or legal defense expenses that are not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. 29 DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS HAVE LIMITED LIABILITY. As permitted by the Delaware General Corporate Law, the Company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws limit the personal liability of the directors and/or stockholders of the Company for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director but such provision does not eliminate or limit the liability of a director in certain circumstances, such as for (i) any breach of the director’s duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders; (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. MAINTENANCE OF OUR TRADEMARKS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IS COSTLY AND WE MAY BE SUED FOR INFRINGEMENT The Company regards its copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to its success, and the Company relies upon trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with its employees, customers, partners and others to protect its proprietary rights. The Company pursues the registration of its trademarks in the United States and (based upon anticipated use) internationally, and has applied for the registration of certain of its trademarks, including "Yatinoo.” Effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which the Company's products and media properties are distributed or made available through the Internet. The Company expects that it may license in the future, elements of its distinctive trademarks, trade dress and similar proprietary rights to third parties, including in connection with branded mirror sites of the Company and other media properties that may be controlled operationally by third parties. While the Company attempts to ensure that the quality of its brand is maintained by prospective licensees, no assurances can be given that such licensees will not take actions that could materially and adversely affect the value of the Company's proprietary rights or the reputation of its products and media properties, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Also, third parties may copy significant portions of the Company directory listings for use in competitive Internet navigational tools and services, and there can be no assurance that the distinctive elements of the Company will be protectable under copyright law. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to protect its proprietary rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate the Company's copyrights, trademarks, trade dress and similar proprietary rights. In addition, there can be no assurance that other parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company. Many parties are actively developing search, indexing and related Web technologies at the present time. The Company believes that such parties have taken and will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including seeking patent protection. As a result, the Company believes that disputes regarding the ownership of such technologies are likely to arise in the future. From time to time the Company expects to be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of its business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by the Company and its licensees. Such claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. 30 OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS DEPEND ON THE CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF A MARKETING AND SALES PROGRAM. The growth of our Company and our operating results are dependent on a successful marketing and sales program and on our ability to develop new website users. If we are unable to create and implement a successful sales and marketing program and to grow our base of website users, we will not be successful. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPETE AGAINST COMPANIES WITH SUBSTANTIALLY GREATER RESOURCES. While we believe that we currently do not have any direct competition who competes in each of our geographic areas, we may encounter future competition from companies that develop products or services similar to those of the Company. This could cause us to lose existing users and advertising sales and prevent us from successfully implementing our business model. Most of our potential future competitors are larger and have many more employees and substantially greater technological, marketing and financial resources than we do and thus will be able to exert significant influence on the markets in which we could be competing. They can use their experience and resources against us in a variety of competitive ways, including by investing more aggressively in research and development in order to develop products or services competitive to the Company web portal. If they are successful in developing similar or improved products or services compared to the Company web portal, we could experience a significant decline in anticipated revenues and profits. In addition, the web portal industry could experience substantial price competition in the future. There can be no assurance that any future price competition by our competitors, if it develops, will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or results or that we will be able to react with price or product and service changes of our own to maintain our projected market position. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE ECONOMY AND GEOPOLITICAL EVENTS. Our business could be affected by general economic conditions and those specific to the Internet, as well as geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. Such an economic or geopolitical event could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. OUR BUSINESS MAY FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MARKETING, DISTRIBUTION AND SALE OF ITS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES INTERNATIONALLY, AND IF ANY SUCH BUSINESS IS UNABLE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE THESE RISKS, IT COULD IMPAIR THE ABILITY OF OUR BUSINESS TO EXPAND ITS BUSINESS ABROAD. The marketing, distribution and sale of our products internationally exposes us to a number of markets with which we have limited experience. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, it could impair our growth prospects. These risks include: 31 · difficult and expensive compliance with the commercial and legal requirements of international markets with which we may have only limited experience; · inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; · encountering trade barriers, such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could affect the competitive pricing of products and reduce market share in some countries; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar; · difficulty in recruiting and retaining individuals skilled in international business operations; · increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; · economic, social and political instability; · cultural and language differences; · restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends; · crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; · nationalization or expropriation of property; · law enforcement authorities and courts that may be inexperienced in commercial matters; · deterioration of political relations with the United States; · difficulty of enforcing revenue collection internationally; and · potential infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or inability to obtain such rights. All or a portion of our international sales may be denominated in Euros. As a result, increases in the value of the Euro relative to other foreign currencies could cause advertising costs with regard to our web portal and related products and services to become less competitive in such other international markets and could result in limited, if any, sales and profitability. In addition, market conditions may require us to denominate a majority of our sales in local currencies, which may further expose such a business to foreign exchange gains or losses. Our strategy may include establishing regional and international web properties. If we implement such a strategy, we may encounter legal restrictions and liability, encounter commercial restrictions and incur taxes and other expenses which may harm our profits and future prospects. 32 PROBLEMS WITH THIRD PARTY SERVICE PROVIDERS COULD AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We intend to rely on third-party service providers, including telecommunications and bandwidth providers and data center operators, in operating our business. Any disruption in the services provided by these service providers or any failure by them to handle our anticipated higher volumes of traffic could have an adverse effect on our business, the nature and extent of which we cannot predict. We exercise little control over these service providers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide to us. We could experience occasional interruptions and delays in service which may negatively impact our relationship with our users or advertising and marketing partners and adversely affect our business. In addition, our service providers may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications and bandwidth failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster, break-in, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism, or other unanticipated problems at these data centers, could result in extended interruptions in our service which could reduce our revenues and profits. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY MALICIOUS THIRD-PARTY APPLICATIONS THAT INTERFERE WITH OUR COMMUNICATIONS WITH OUR WEBSITE USERS, WITH THEIR DATA OR WITH THEIR EXPERIENCE IN DEALING WITH US. Computer viruses, worms and similar software programs may harm the performance of the Internet. Our business may be adversely affected by malicious applications such as computer viruses and worms that make changes to our users’ computers and interfere with their use of the Company web portal, their data or their experience with us. These applications may in the future attempt to interfere with our ability to communicate with our users. This interference could occur without our knowledge or disclosure to or consent from our users, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with the Company. These applications may be difficult or impossible to uninstall or disable, may reinstall themselves and may circumvent other applications’ efforts to block or remove them. The ability to communicate with our users and provide them with a superior experience is critical to our success. If efforts to combat these malicious applications are unsuccessful, our reputation may be harmed and our relationships with certain users could be impaired. This could result in a decline in the number of users or traffic and a decline in advertising revenues, which would damage our business. OUR VOTING CONTROL IS CONCENTRATED AND PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS COULD DISCOURAGE CHANGES THAT STOCKHOLDERS MAY CONSIDER FAVORABLE. Our principal shareholders own or control a majority of our outstanding voting equity securities. In addition, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as amended, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: (i) our Board of Directors will have the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director; and (ii) stockholders may act by written consent to elect directors, provided that if such consent is less than unanimous, such action may be in lieu of an annual meeting only if all directorships are filled. These provisions may discourage or deter stockholders from attempting to take certain actions at a stockholders’ meeting. As a result, our principal shareholders will have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of a majority of our directors, and the ability to significantly influence our management and our affairs. 33 WE CAN PROVIDE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING WILL BE EFFECTIVE UNDER SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002. ESTABLISHING INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING IS LIKELY TO INCREASE OUR COSTS. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) and the rules issued thereunder have required certain changes in the corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices of United States public companies. Our compliance with these rules is likely to increase our general and administrative costs. In particular, our management is required to conduct an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of each year-end, beginning December 31, 2009. We are required to include in our annual report on Form 10-K a report on our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will also issue an audit report on management’s assessment and on our internal control over financial reporting as of each year end, beginning December 31, 2009. We expect that SOX and such other laws, rules and regulations promulgated thereunder will increase legal and financial compliance costs and will make our corporate governance activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly. Given the complexities and inherent risks associated with the operation of internal control over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective under Section 404. Moreover, we can provide no assurance as to any matters that might be reported in our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit report. If we are not able to implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other provisions of Section 404 in a timely fashion or achieve adequate compliance with these requirements or other requirements of SOX, we might become subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. Any such action may materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and the value of our securities, including our common stock. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could result in a lower trading price for our securities. THE COMPANY CURRENTLY DOES NOT INTEND TO PAY DIVIDENDS TO ITS STOCKHOLDERS. We do not intend to declare or pay cash dividends to our stockholders until we have achieved profitability, if ever. Management anticipates that after establishment of suitable reserves for taxes and working capital, and for additional product research and development, dividends may be distributed by the Company to its stockholders. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to pay any dividends to shareholders. 34 WE ARE SUBJECT TO CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, AND WE MAY INTERPRET OR IMPLEMENT REQUIRED POLICIES INCORRECTLY. Prior to the Yatinoo Acquisition, we followed IFRS adopted by the European Union as reconciled to U.S. GAAP in preparing our financial statements. In this Annual Report, our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As part of this process, we must make many estimates and judgments about future events. These affect the value of the assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses that we report in our financial statements. We believe these estimates and judgments are reasonable, and we make them in accordance with our accounting policies based on information available at the time. However, actual results could differ from our estimates, and this could require us to record adjustments to expenses or revenues that could be material to our financial position and results of operations in future periods. BECAUSE WE BECAME PUBLIC BY MEANS OF A REVERSE MERGER TRANSACTION, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT THE ATTENTION OF MAJOR BROKERAGE FIRMS. There may be risks associated with the Company becoming a public company through a “reverse merger.” Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of the Company because there is no incentive to them to recommend the purchase of the Company’s common stock. We cannot assure investors that brokerage firms will ever want to conduct any secondary offerings on the Company’s behalf. THIS ANNUAL REPORT CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT MAY PROVE TO NOT BE ACCURATE. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. All statements other than those of historical facts, including those regarding business strategy, the plans and objectives of management, our projected costs and expected benefits, and similar statements, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations. Important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from our expectations include those set forth in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 