Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and the Financial Services Industry As a newly-formed public bank holding company, we will incur significant legal, accounting, compliance and other expenses. As a newly-formed public bank holding company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that were not necessarily incurred by Service1st prior to the Acquisition. There can be no assurances that the costs will not be materially higher. For example, we will continue to be required to prepare and file quarterly, annual and current reports with the SEC, as well as comply with a myriad of rules applicable to public companies, such as the proxy rules, beneficial ownership reporting requirements and other obligations. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules implemented by the SEC in response to that legislation have required significant changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. While we have had to comply with such rules and regulations in the past, we expect these rules and regulations to significantly affect legal and financial compliance costs when we enter into the financial services industry as a result of the Acquisition, and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly than they had been prior to the Acquisition. Additionally, as a newly-formed bank holding company, we will be required to prepare supplemental qualitative disclosure regarding our assets and operations as set forth in Article 9 of Regulation S-X and Industry Guide No. 3, which will include information such as portfolio loan composition, yield, costs, loan terms, maturities, re-pricing characteristics, credit ratings and risk elements such as non-accrual and past due items, which will add to our legal and compliance costs going forward. As the provider of financial services, our business and earnings will be significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, particularly in the real estate industry, and accordingly, our business and earnings could be further harmed in the event of a continuation or deepening of the current U.S. recession or further market deterioration or disruption. The global and U.S. economies and the local economies in the Nevada market, where substantially all of the Service1st loan portfolio was originated, experienced a steep decline between 2007 and 2009. The financial markets and the financial services industry in particular suffered unprecedented disruption, causing many financial institutions to fail or require government intervention to avoid failure. These conditions were largely the result of the erosion of the U.S. and global credit markets, including a significant and rapid deterioration of the mortgage lending and related real estate markets. We give you no assurance that economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry and the capital, credit, and real estate markets generally, will improve in the near term. Our business and earnings will be sensitive to general business, economic and market conditions in the United States. These conditions include changes in short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuation in the real estate and debt capital markets, developments in national and regional economies and changes in government policies and regulations. Our business and earnings will be particularly sensitive to economic and market conditions affecting the real estate industry because a large portion of our loan portfolio will consist of commercial real estate and construction loans. Real estate values have been declining in Nevada, steeply in some cases, which has affected collateral values and has resulted in increased provisions for loan losses for Nevada banks. While generally containing lower risk than unsecured loans, commercial real estate and construction loans generally involve a high degree of credit risk. Such loans also generally involve larger individual loan balances. In addition, real estate construction loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because many real estate construction borrowers’ ability to repay their loans is dependent on successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of property construction (including interest), the ability of the borrowers to stabilize leasing or rental income to qualify for 7 Table of Contents permanent financing and the availability of permanent take-out financing, itself a market we believe that is largely non-existent at present. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. Construction and commercial real estate loans also involve greater risk because they may not be fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment may depend on the borrower being able to refinance the loan, timely sell the underlying property or liquidate other assets. The current U.S. recession has resulted in a reduction in the value of many of the real estate assets securing a large portion of the loans that we are purchasing. Any increase in the number of delinquencies or defaults would result in higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Future acquisitions will require regulatory approval and may be on terms that may not conform to our current business plan and our asset portfolio. Upon the consummation of the Acquisition, we will operate as a “new” Nevada financial institution bank holding company and will conduct our operations through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Service1st. Service1st currently operates from its main office and two branch locations with approximately $137.0 million in gross loans and approximately $185.3 million in deposits. Following the consummation of the Acquisition, we intend to grow organically, and if approved by the appropriate bank regulatory agencies, pursue additional acquisitions, including government assisted transactions and opportunities involving federally assisted bank acquisitions. There is no assurance that we will receive the necessary approvals for such acquisitions or that such acquisitions will conform to our current business plan and asset portfolio. Our geographic concentration will be tied to business, economic and regulatory conditions in Nevada. Unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in Nevada, where we will conduct the majority of our business, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because our business will be concentrated in Nevada, and our entire loan portfolio originated from Nevada, we could also be adversely affected by any material change in Nevada law or regulation and may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks that are greater than the risks we would face if the business were spread more evenly by geographic region. Furthermore, the recent decline in Nevada in the value of real estate assets and local business revenues, particularly in the gaming and hospitality industries, could continue and would likely have a significant adverse impact on business, financial conditions and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the real estate market or local industry revenues will not continue to decline. Further erosion in asset values in Nevada could impact our existing loans and could make it difficult for us to find attractive alternatives to deploy our capital, impeding our ability to grow our business. The Las Vegas market is substantially dependent on gaming and tourism revenue, and the downturn in the gaming and tourism industries has indirectly had an adverse impact on Nevada banks. The economy of the Las Vegas area is unique in the United States for its level of dependence on services and industries related to gaming and tourism. Regardless of whether a Nevada bank has substantial customer relationships in the gaming and tourism industries, the downturn in the Nevada economy adversely affects the bank’s customers, resulting in an increase in loan delinquencies and foreclosures, a reduction in the demand for products and services, and a reduction of the value of collateral for loans, with an associated adverse impact on the bank’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Any event or state of affairs that adversely affects the gaming or tourism industry adversely impacts the Las Vegas economy generally. Gaming and tourism revenue is particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in the economy. Virtually any development or event that dissuades travel or spending related to gaming and tourism adversely affects the Las Vegas economy. The Las Vegas economy is more susceptible than the economies of many other cities to such issues as higher gasoline and other fuel prices, increased airfares, unemployment levels, recession, rising interest rates, and other economic conditions, whether domestic or foreign. Gaming 8 Table of Contents and tourism are also susceptible to political conditions or events, such as military hostilities and acts of terrorism, whether domestic or foreign. In addition, Las Vegas competes with other areas of the country and other parts of the world for gaming revenue, and it is possible that the expansion of gaming operations in other states, such as California, and other countries would significantly reduce gaming revenue in the Las Vegas area. The soundness of other financial institutions with which we do business could adversely affect us. The financial services industry and the securities markets have been materially adversely affected by significant declines in values of almost all asset classes and by extreme lack of liquidity in the capital and credit markets. Financial institutions specifically have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, investment, or other relationships, including loan participations, derivatives, and hedging transactions and investments in securities or loans originated or issued by financial institutions or supported by the loans they originate. Many of these transactions expose a financial institution to credit or investment risk arising out of default by the counterparty. In addition, a bank’s credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral it holds cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or other exposure. These circumstances could lead to impairments or write-downs in a bank’s securities portfolio and periodic gains or losses on other investments under mark-to-market accounting treatment. We could incur additional losses to our securities portfolio in the future as a result of these issues. These types of losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Furthermore, if we are unable to ascertain the credit quality of certain potential counterparties, we may not pursue otherwise attractive opportunities and we may be unable to effectively grow our business. Our earnings may be significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which impact net interest margin, and can materially affect the value of financial instruments, such as debt securities. Its policies can also affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve policies will be beyond our control and difficult to predict or anticipate. To the extent that changes in Federal Reserve policies have a disproportionate effect on our cost of funding or on the health of our borrowers, such changes could materially affect our operating results. If there was a depletion of the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC could impose additional assessments on the banking industry. If there was a depletion of the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, we believe that the FDIC would impose additional assessments on the banking industry. In such case, Service1st’s profitability would be reduced by any special assessments from the FDIC to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. The financial services industry is heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. Federal and state regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the business going forward in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and damage to our reputation. 9 Table of Contents Potential acquisitions through government-assisted transactions are ultimately decided upon by many of the agencies that will regulate us. To the extent that our regulators took actions that were not in our interests, it could have a negative impact on our growth prospects. Additionally, there can be no assurance that regulatory approvals will be granted and the Acquisition will be consummated. We operate in a highly regulated environment and changes in the laws and regulations that govern our operations, changes in the accounting principles that are applicable to us, and our failure to comply with the foregoing, may adversely affect us. We will be subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and legislation that governs almost all aspects of our operations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors, and the deposit insurance funds, not stockholders. Changes in these laws or in applicable accounting principles could make it more difficult and expensive for us to comply with laws, regulations, or accounting principles and could affect the way we conduct business. Moreover, the United States, state, and foreign governments have taken or are considering extraordinary actions to deal with the worldwide financial crisis and the severe decline in the global economy. Many of these actions have been in effect for only a limited time and have produced limited or no relief to the capital, credit, and real estate markets. We cannot assure you that these actions or other actions under consideration will ultimately be successful. Although we cannot reliably predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors and stockholders. Compliance with the initiatives may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. A stockholder with a 5% or greater interest in Western Liberty Bancorp could, under certain circumstances, be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company.” Any entity (including a “group” composed of natural persons) owning 25% or more of the outstanding Western Liberty Bancorp common stock, or 5% or more if such stockholder otherwise exercises a “controlling influence” over Western Liberty Bancorp, may be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” in accordance with the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”). In addition, (1) any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the BHCA to acquire or retain 5% or more of the outstanding Western Liberty Bancorp common stock and (2) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the Change in Bank Control Act to acquire or retain 10% or more of the outstanding Western Liberty Bancorp common stock. Becoming a bank holding company imposes certain statutory and regulatory restrictions and burdens. In addition, because a bank holding company is required to provide managerial and financial strength for its bank subsidiary, such stockholder may be required to divest investments that may be deemed incompatible with bank holding company status, such as a material investment in a company unrelated to banking. Each stockholder is responsible for monitoring their ownership level to determine whether they will become subject to regulation as a “bank holding company.” Furthermore, although we will actively work with such stockholders to make sure they are in compliance with these obligations, we may not receive the requisite bank regulatory approvals for the Acquisition if any such stockholder refuses to register as a bank holding company or divest itself of certain investments. Any current or future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, inquiries or changes could have a significant impact on the financial services industry. The financial services industry has experienced unprecedented market value declines caused primarily by the current U.S. recession and real estate market deterioration. As a result of the current market perceptions of stockholder advocacy groups as well as the current U.S. Administration in Washington, D.C., litigation, proceedings, inquiries or regulatory changes are all distinct possibilities for financial institutions. Such actions or changes could result in significant costs. Because we will be a relatively new financial institution, any costs 10 Table of Contents and/or burdens imposed by such actions or changes could affect us disproportionately from how they affect our competitors. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) may not stabilize the financial services industry or the U.S. economy. The EESA was signed into law on October 3, 2008. The legislation was intended to alleviate the financial crisis affecting the U.S. banking system. A number of programs have been and are being developed and implemented under EESA. The EESA may not have the intended effect and therefore the condition of the financial services industry may worsen instead of improve. The failure of the EESA to improve the condition of the U.S. banking system could significantly adversely impact business, financial condition, financial results and/or access to funding or capital, as well as the trading price of common stock after consummation of the Acquisition. The ARRA was signed into law on February 17, 2009. The legislation was intended to provide immediate and long-term solutions to the current U.S. recession. The ARRA may not have the intended effect; therefore, the current U.S. recession and the condition of the financial services industry may worsen instead of improve. The failure of the ARRA to improve the current U.S. recession and/or improve the condition of the U.S. banking system could significantly adversely impact business, financial condition, financial results and/or access to funding or capital, as well as the trading price of common stock after consummation of the Acquisition. Current market volatility and industry developments may adversely affect business and financial results. The volatility in the capital and credit markets along with the housing declines during the last year have resulted in significant pressure on the financial services industry. If current volatility and market conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the financial services industry, results of operations or the business will not continue to be significantly adversely impacted. We may have further increases in loan losses, deterioration of capital or limitations on their access to funding or capital, if needed. Further, if other financial institutions fail to be adequately capitalized or funded, it may negatively impact business and financial results. In the past, Service1st has routinely interacted with numerous financial institutions in the ordinary course of business and has therefore been exposed to operational and credit risk to those institutions. Failures of such institutions may significantly adversely impact our operations going forward. Strategies to manage interest rate risk may yield results other than those anticipated. Changes in the interest rate environment are difficult to predict. Net interest margins can expand or contract, and this can significantly impact overall earnings. Changes in interest rates can also adversely affect the application of critical management estimates, their projected returns on investments, as well as the determination of fair values of certain assets. We have certain assets and liabilities with fixed interest rates. Unexpected and dramatic changes in interest rates may materially impact our operating results. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and revenues. Financial institutions’ earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from actual, alleged or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service to meet customers’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance, acquisitions, as a defendant in litigation, or from actions taken by government regulators or community organizations. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to attract and/or retain customers and can expose us to litigation or regulatory action. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important for access to certain sources of wholesale borrowings, thereby increasing the cost or reducing, or eliminating, the availability of these sources of funding. We are highly dependent on our customer relationships. Any negative perception of us which impacted our customer relationships could materially affect our business prospects by reducing our deposit base. We will not 11 Table of Contents have controlled Service1st prior to the closing of the Acquisition. As such, there may be actions, that we are unaware of, which have been taken by Service1st in the past that could cause a negative public opinion of us in the future. Disruptions in our ability to access capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. In managing their consolidated balance sheet, financial institutions depend on access to capital markets to provide them with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet their commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of their customers. Other sources of funding available, and upon which they rely as regular components of their liquidity risk management strategy, include deposits, inter- bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from banks and the Federal Reserve discount window. Any occurrence that may limit access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of depositors, debt purchasers, or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of their debt ratings, may adversely affect our borrowing costs and liquidity going forward. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our profitability, business and prospects. Most of the assets and liabilities of a bank holding company are monetary in nature, exposed to significant risks from changes in interest rates that can affect net income and the valuation of assets and liabilities. Increases or decreases in prevailing interest rates could have an adverse effect on our business, asset quality, and prospects. Our operating income and net income will depend to a great extent on our net interest margin, the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities, and other interest-earning assets and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing deposits, borrowings, and other liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions, and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve. If the rate of interest we pay on interest-bearing deposits, borrowings, and other liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on loans, securities, and other interest-earning assets, our net interest income and therefore our earnings could be adversely affected. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other liabilities. In addition, loan volumes are affected by market interest rates on loans. Rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with increased loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments loan repayment rates decline and in a falling interest rate environment loan repayment rates increase. We cannot assure you that we will be able to minimize our risk exposure to changing interest rates. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Interest rates also affect how much money we can lend. When rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Increasing our existing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. We will assume the market share of Service1st. Our ability to increase that market share will depend, in part, on our ability to create and adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest margin and revenues from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet-based services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt the existing products and services we are assuming. We may not successfully introduce new products and services, achieve market acceptance of products and services and/or be able to develop and maintain loyal customers. Market share expansion will also require fixed asset (branch) expansion 12 Table of Contents to service a larger customer base and to access broader markets. There is no guaranty of a positive return on these expenditures. Risks Related to the Acquisition The Acquisition is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Acquisition. Before the Acquisition may be completed, various approvals and consents must be obtained from the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Nevada Financial Institutions Division. As a corporation not currently subject to bank supervisory regulation, our applications to become a bank holding company for a Nevada-based community bank are subject to different statutory approval processes maintained by several federal and state bank regulatory agencies with supervisory oversight and jurisdiction of the contemplated transactions and the banks that are parties to the contemplated transactions. Approval terms granted by these federal and state bank regulatory agencies may include terms and conditions more onerous than our management contemplates, and approval may not be granted in the timeframes desired by the parties to the contemplated transactions. Bank regulatory approval, if granted, may contain terms that relate to deteriorating real estate lending both nationally and in Nevada; bank regulatory supervisory reactions to the current economic difficulties may not be specific to WLBC itself. Additionally, these regulators may impose conditions on the completion of the Acquisition or require changes to the terms of the Acquisition. Any such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying or prohibiting completion of the Acquisition or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues following the Acquisition. There can be no assurances that regulatory approvals will be granted and the Acquisition consummated. Any future acquisitions will also be subject to regulatory approvals, and there is no assurance that such approvals will be obtained or that any future acquisitions will conform to WLBC’s business plan and asset portfolio. Additionally, there is no requirement that we bring any future acquisitions to a vote of stockholders, other than as required under Delaware or other applicable law, or pursuant to stock exchange rules. As a result of the Acquisition, the ownership interest of WLBC’s current stockholders will be substantially reduced, resulting in a dilution of WLBC’s current stockholders’ voting power. In connection with the consummation of the Acquisition, we will issue shares of our common stock to the holders of Service1st common stock. The issuance of these shares of our common stock will dilute our existing stockholders’ voting interest. While a majority of the proposed members of our post-Acquisition board of directors are considered “independent” under the listing standards of the NYSE Amex, our post-Acquisition board of directors will contain three directors designated by Service1st. In addition, certain officers of Service1st will remain officers of Service1st and/or become officers of WLBC post-Acquisition. These directors and officers may align their interests with those of the former stockholders of Service1st rather than those of the stockholders of WLBC prior to the Acquisition. In addition, following the Acquisition, WLBC’s outstanding common stock will be subject to substantial potential dilution by outstanding Service1st options and warrants that will be exercisable for shares of WLBC common stock. Our board of directors has approved the award of post-closing transaction related equity awards, which, if issued, would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution of our stockholders. Our board of directors has approved the award of up to 1.5 million shares of restricted stock in connection with the Acquisition, which may be awarded to certain members of our management and our consultants, in connection with the Acquisition. The Compensation Committee will meet to determine which members of our management and our consultants will receive equity grants and the allocation of such grants. No decision has been made by our current board of directors as to whether these shares will be awarded at all, how many of such shares may be awarded, when such shares may be awarded or to whom 13 Table of Contents such shares may be awarded. All such determinations will be made solely by the Compensation Committee in place upon consummation of the Acquisition. Any future awards of these restricted stock will not be subject to the approval of stockholders. To the extent such grants are allocated post-closing, 1.5 million additional shares of our common stock may be issued, which will result in the dilution of the ownership of the holders of our common stock and an increase in the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The value of our capital stock could be adversely affected to the extent we fail to effectively integrate Service1st and realize the expected benefits of the Acquisition. The Acquisition will involve the merger of Merger Sub with and into Service1st. It is possible that this will result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees. As with any financial institution acquisition, there also may be disruptions that cause us to lose customers or cause customers to take deposits out of banks. Our financial results and condition after the Acquisition may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting our current financial results and condition. Although we believe that the Acquisition will create financial, operational and strategic benefits for the combined company and our stockholders, these benefits may not be achieved. The Acquisition, even if conducted in an efficient, effective and timely manner, may not result in combined financial performance that is better than what we would have achieved if the Acquisition had not occurred or if we entered into liquidation. Service1st may not be able to obtain the approval of its stockholders, which is required to consummate the Acquisition. Under the applicable Nevada corporate statutes, the consummation of the Acquisition will require the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Service1st (the “Service1st Stockholder Approval”). Although holders of approximately 24% of Service1st’s outstanding shares have agreed to vote their shares in favor of the Acquisition in accordance with the Voting Agreement, there can be no assurance that Service1st will be able to obtain the Service1st Stockholder Approval. If the Service1st Stockholder Approval is not obtained, we will not be able to consummate the Acquisition. If the Acquisition’s benefits do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our securities may decline. The market price of our securities may decline as a result of the Acquisition if: • we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the Acquisition as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; or • the effect of the Acquisition on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decreasing stock price and we may not be able to raise future capital, if necessary, in the equity markets. Our current directors and executive officers have certain interests in consummating the Acquisition that may have influenced their decision to approve the Acquisition. Certain of our current directors and executive officers comprise certain of our private stockholders, private warrantholders and holders of restricted stock, and have approved the Acquisition. These financial interests of those private stockholders, private warrantholders and holders of restricted stock, who are our current directors or officers may have influenced their decision to approve the Acquisition and to continue to pursue the 14 Table of Contents Acquisition. In considering the recommendations of our board of directors to vote for the Acquisition Proposal and other proposals, our stockholders should consider these interests. The historical financial information included in this proxy statement/prospectus is not necessarily indicative of our future performance. The historical financial information for Service1st included in this proxy statement/prospectus is not necessarily indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been if we had been a public bank holding company during those periods. The results of future periods may be different as a result of, among other things, the additional costs associated with being a public bank holding company and the pace of growth of our business in the future, which is likely to differ from the historical growth reflected in Service1st’s financial information presented herein. Service1st has experienced significant losses since it began operations in January of 2007. There is no assurance that it will become profitable. Service1st commenced operations as a commercial bank on January 16, 2007, with initial capital of $50.0 million. Since inception, Service1st has not been profitable. To some extent, the lack of profitability is attributable to the start-up nature of its business; time is required to build assets sufficient to generate enough interest income to cover operating expenses. However, in addition to the customary challenges of building profitability for a start-up bank, Service1st has experienced deterioration in the quality of its loan portfolio, largely as a result of the challenging economic conditions in the Nevada market during the last two years. As a result, Service1st experienced losses of $4.2 million in 2007, $5.1 million in 2008 and $17.4 million in 2009. Although Service1st’s initial capital was sufficient to absorb these losses and Service1st remains well capitalized under applicable regulatory criteria, at the end of 2009, Service1st’s capital of $24.5 million was nearly half the level of its original capital. Despite the guidance we expect to receive from certain executives of Service1st who will remain with the company and join our board of directors, we expect to incur certain transitional expenses that may be large in proportion to the scale of our operations. In addition, we have no earnings history and there is no guarantee that we will ever be profitable or be able to successfully implement an effective business model. In order for Service1st to become profitable, we believe that we will need to attract a larger amount of deposits and a larger portfolio of loans than it currently has. We must avoid further deterioration in its loan portfolio and increase the amount of its performing loans so that the combination of its net interest income and non-interest income, after deduction of its provision for loan losses, exceeds its non-interest expense. The source of the majority of Service1st’s loan losses can be traced primarily to real estate loans that were reliant on continuation of a growing and prosperous economic environment. Beginning in early to mid-2008, increased emphasis on underwriting standards and risk selection was introduced, which effectively discontinued the making of construction, land development, other land loans and any other loans in which the primary source of repayment was subject to greater risk than our current standards would require (such as repayment from proceeds from sales, rentals, leases or refinancing, including permanent take out financing) or based upon projections, unless such loans were accompanied by additional financial support from the borrowers or guarantors. In 2009, Service1st also took charge offs of $12.2 million (including $7.7 million for construction, land development and other land loans and $4.4 million for commercial and industrial loans) based on its assessment of the inherent losses in its loan portfolio. Its future profitability may also be dependent on numerous other factors, including the success of the Nevada economy and favorable government regulation. The Nevada economy has experienced a significant decline in recent years due to the current economic climate. This economy, in which all of Service1st’s loans have been made, continues to exhibit weakness, and there can be no assurance that further material losses will not be experienced in the portfolio. It will also be a highly regulated institution. Our ability to grow and achieve profitability may be adversely affected by state and federal regulations that limit a bank’s ability to make loans and purchase securities. Continued deterioration of the national and/or local economies, adverse government regulation or our inability to grow our business could affect our ability to become profitable. If this happens, there continues to be a risk that it will not operate on a profitable basis in the near or long-term, and it may never become profitable. 15 Table of Contents The Service1st loan portfolio and any other loan portfolios we may acquire after the closing of the Acquisition may not perform as expected. Our performance and prospects after the consummation of the Acquisition will be dependent to a significant extent on the performance of the loan portfolio of Service1st, constituting a total of 201 loans totaling approximately $137.0 million in gross, and other loan portfolios we may acquire following the consummation of the Acquisition, and ultimately on the financial condition of our borrowers and other customers. The Service1st loan portfolio and any other loan portfolios we may acquire after consummation of the Acquisition may differ to some extent in the types of borrowers, industries and credits represented. In addition, there may be differences in the documentation, classifications, risk grading and management of the portfolios, and we may acquire loans from various geographic locations following the Acquisition. None of these loans will have historically been serviced or maintained by our employees or management. As a result, our overall loan portfolio after the consummation of the Acquisition may have a different risk profile than the loan portfolio of Service1st before the consummation of the Acquisition. The performance of our loan portfolio could be adversely affected if any of such factors are worse than currently anticipated. In addition, to the extent that present customers are not retained or additional expenses are incurred in retaining them, there could be adverse effects on our future consolidated results of operations following the consummation of the Acquisition. Realization of improvement in profitability is dependent, in part, on the extent to which the revenues of Service1st are maintained and enhanced. Further deterioration in the quality of Service 1st’s loan portfolio may result in additional charge-offs which will adversely effect our operating results. During the last two years, Service 1st suffered from a deterioration in the quality of its loan portfolio. Net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 8.43% at December 31, 2009 as compared to 1.44% at December 31, 2008 and 0.03% at December 31, 2007. The depressed economic conditions in Nevada which contributed significantly to this deterioration are expected to continue into 2010. As of December 31, 2009, performing loans that are classified as potential problem loans constituted approximately 26.41% of total loans. As a result, while Service 1st has implemented various measures to address the current economic situation and took significant charge-offs in 2009, there may be further deterioration in its loan portfolio which will require additional charge-offs. Additional charge-offs will adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Most of the loans being acquired have been originated in the last three years and may have experienced performance which may not be representative of credit defaults in the future. All of Service1st’s loans were originated in the past three years. A portfolio of older loans will often behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. The average age of its loan portfolio, excluding loan renewals, is 1.7 years, and the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail in the event we make loans with longer maturity periods. As of December 31, 2009, 30 to 89 days delinquent and accruing loans were $0, 90 plus days delinquent and accruing loans were $0 million and non-accrual loans were $7.8 million. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Current appraisals (6 months or less) were available on all of Service1st’s non-performing real estate loans. All appraisal valuations in file were assessed and updated based on current market conditions, cap rates and varying degrees of stress testing based on property type, location, lease maturities, vacancy factors and tenant strength. A substantial portion of Service1st’s loan portfolio consists of loans maturing within one year, and there is no guarantee that these loans will be replaced upon maturity or renewed on the same terms or at all. Approximately 44% of Service1st’s loan portfolio consists of loans maturing within one year. As a result, we will either need to renew or replace these loans during the course of the year. There is no guarantee that these loans will be originated or renewed by borrowers on the same terms or at all, as demand for such loans may decrease. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that borrowers will qualify for new loans or that existing 16 Table of Contents loans will be renewed by us on the same terms or at all, as collateral values may be insufficient or the borrowers’ cash flow maybe materially less than when the loan originated. This could result in a significant decline in the performance of our loan portfolio. Service1st relies upon independent appraisals to determine the value of the real estate which secures a significant portion of its loans, and the values indicated by such appraisals may not be realizable if Service 1st is forced to foreclose upon such loans. A significant portion of Service 1st’s loan portfolio consists of loans secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 65.8% of its loans were secured by real estate. Service 1st relies upon independent appraisers to estimate the value of the real estate which secures its loans. Appraisals may reflect the estimated value of the collateral on an “as-is” basis, an “as-stabilized” basis or an “as-if-developed” basis, depending upon the loan type and collateral. Raw land generally is appraised at its “as-is” value. Income producing property may be appraised at its “as-stabilized” value, which takes into account the anticipated cash flow of the property based upon expected occupancy rates and other factors. The collateral securing construction loans may be appraised at its “as-if-developed” value, which approximates the post-construction value of the collateralized property assuming that such property is developed. “As-if-developed” values on construction loans often exceed the immediate sales value and may include anticipated zoning changes, and successful development by the purchaser. Appraisals are only estimates of value and the independent appraisers may make mistakes of fact or judgment which adversely affect the reliability of their appraisal. In addition, events occurring after the initial appraisal may cause the value of the real estate to decrease. With respect to appraisals conducted on an “as-if-developed” basis, if a loan goes into default prior to development of a project, the market value of the property may be substantially less than the “as-if-developed” appraised value. As a result of any of these factors, there may be less security than anticipated at the time the loan was originally made. If there is less security and a default occurs, Service1st may not recover the outstanding balance of the loan. As a de novo bank Service1st is subject to restrictions that may inhibit growth and initiatives not within its existing business plan. Service1st is subject to customary conditions applicable to newly chartered (so called, “de novo”) banks for a probationary period of seven years. During such probationary period, Service1st must maintain a Tier 1 capital leverage ratio of not less than 8.0%. (At December 31, 2009, its Tier 1 capital leverage ratio was 11.00%.) In addition, during the seven-year period, Service1st is required to operate within the parameters of a business plan submitted to the FDIC (an amended version of which was most recently submitted during the fourth quarter of 2009), and to provide the FDIC 60 days’ advance notice of any proposed material change or material deviation from the business plan, before making any such change or deviation. During the seven-year de novo period, Service1st will remain on a 12-month risk management examination cycle and be subject to enhanced supervision for compliance examinations and Community Reinvestment Act evaluations. Consequently, Service1st will be under a high degree of regulatory scrutiny, at least through the end of 2013, and proposed initiatives not included in the business plan submitted to the FDIC will require prior FDIC approval. As a result, Service1st may not be able to implement new business initiatives, and its ability to grow may be inhibited. Service1st is subject to a Memorandum of Understanding and to regulatory restrictions that may affect its ability to obtain regulatory approval for future initiatives requiring such approval and to hire and retain qualified senior management. In May of 2009, Service1st entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with the FDIC and the Nevada Financial Institutions Division. Pursuant to the MOU, Service1st agreed, among other initiatives, to develop and submit a comprehensive strategic plan covering at least a three-year operating period; to reduce the level of adversely classified assets and review loan grading criteria and procedures to ensure accurate risk ratings; to develop a plan to strengthen credit administration of construction and land loans (including the reduction of concentration limits in land, construction and development loans and the improvement of stress- 17 Table of Contents testing of commercial real estate loan concentrations); to review its methodology for determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses; and to correct apparent violations listed in its most recent report of examination. Management believes that Service1st is in full compliance with the terms of the MOU and reports compliance with the components of the MOU to its board of directors monthly and the FDIC and the Nevada Financial Institutions Division at the end of each calendar quarter. The MOU reflects a heightened degree of concern by the bank regulators regarding the matters as to which Service1st has agreed to take action, and these underlying concerns, unless fully addressed over time, could adversely affect the ability of Service1st to obtain approval for initiatives requiring approval. In addition, since mid-2009, Service1st has been required (i) to provide the FDIC with at least 30 days’ prior notice before appointing any new director or senior executive officer or changing the responsibilities of any senior executive officer; and (ii) to obtain FDIC approval before making (or agreeing to make) any severance payments (except pursuant to a qualified pension or retirement plan and certain other employee benefit plans). The FDIC is likely to use the prior notice requirement in practice as a means of objecting to the appointment of new directors or senior executives (or changes in the responsibilities of senior executives) it deems not qualified for the positions sought (or to changes in the responsibilities of senior executives it deems not qualified for the new responsibilities proposed). These requirements will apply as well to WLBC upon the acquisition of Service1st. These regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for Service1st and WLBC to retain and hire qualified senior management. The MOU and these regulatory restrictions will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the regulators. Risks Related to Western Liberty Bancorp Although we are required to use our commercially reasonable efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of common stock underlying exercisable warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants. Although we have undertaken in the Amended and Restated Warrant Agreement (as defined in the section entitled “Description of Securities — Warrants” below), and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our commercially reasonable efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares of common stock underlying our outstanding warrants following the consummation of a business combination to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. In addition, we have agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to register the shares of common stock underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the existing warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares of common stock underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), with respect to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $21.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading-day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless the warrants comprising the units sold in our initial public offering and the shares of common stock underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the 18 Table of Contents beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders to (i) exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. We expect most purchasers of our warrants will hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently you are unlikely to receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. If you fail to receive notice of redemption from a third party and your warrants are redeemed for nominal value, you will not have recourse to us. Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution of our stockholders. Outstanding redeemable warrants to purchase an aggregate of (i) 31,948,850 shares of our common stock with respect to our warrants issued in our initial public offering (“Public Warrants”) and (ii) up to 16,118,908 shares of our common stock with respect to our Private Warrants (assuming the Private Warrants held by Hayground Cove or its affiliates are no longer under Hayground Cove’s or any of its affiliates’ control) will become exercisable after the consummation of the Acquisition. These warrants likely will be exercised only if the per share exercise price is below the market price of the shares of our common stock. To the extent such warrants are exercised, 48,067,758 additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in the dilution of the ownership of the holders of our common stock and an increase in the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The NYSE Amex may delist our securities on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. On October 20, 2009, we received notice from the staff of the NYSE Amex, where our securities are currently listed, indicating that the NYSE Amex believes that we no longer comply with its continued listing standards due to the recent amendments to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation approved at our stockholder meeting on October 7, 2009 and an insufficient number of public stockholders of our common stock. We have appealed this determination and have been granted the right to a hearing before a committee of the NYSE Amex on February 11, 2010. If our securities remain on the NYSE Amex, we will be required to meet their respective continued listing requirements to remain listed. We may not be able to maintain those listing requirements. If the NYSE Amex delists our securities from trading, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a significant devaluation of our securities, which could result in a determination that our shares of common stock have become “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our shares of common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for the shares of common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. In addition, if the NYSE Amex delists our securities, we cannot assure you as to when we will be able to relist such securities on a national securities exchange. 19 Table of Contents Our stock price could fluctuate and could cause you to lose a significant part of your investment. Following consummation of the Acquisition, the market price of our securities may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above and the following: • changes in our perceived ability to increase our assets and deposits; • changes in financial estimates by analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, productions, acquisitions or capital commitments; • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • general economic conditions; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • terrorist acts; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; • future sales of our common stock; • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; • litigation involving us, our subsidiaries or our general industry; and • additions or departures of key personnel. We do not expect to present any additional or alternative acquisitions to our stockholders for a vote, except as required under Delaware or other applicable law, or pursuant stock exchange rules. Furthermore, if the Acquisition is not approved, we will have unrestricted funds which we intend to use to make an alternative acquisition. As a result, you will possibly not have the opportunity to evaluate a potential acquisition, which would make your investment in us more speculative. We do not expect to present any additional or alternative acquisitions to our stockholders for a vote, except as required under Delaware or other applicable law or pursuant to stock exchange rules. This includes, among other things, the right to vote upon certain direct mergers involving the Company and the right to vote upon any sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets. In general, no vote of our stockholders is required under our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Delaware law to authorize the purchase by us of the assets of another entity (including, for example, assets purchased from a troubled financial institution as part of a sale by the FDIC or other regulator) or to authorize acquisitions effected through a merger in which we are the surviving corporation, each share of our stock outstanding immediately prior to the effectiveness of the merger is an identical share of the surviving corporation, and our authorized unissued shares or treasury shares to be issued or delivered under the relevant merger agreement do not exceed 20% of the shares of our common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective date of the merger. Any future acquisition structured as a purchase of the assets of another entity in exchange for cash would not require a stockholder vote under Delaware law. Likewise, any acquisition by us of another company that is structured as a “forward triangular merger” or a “reverse triangular merger” (which, in each case, would involve a merger between the target entity and a wholly-owned subsidiary of WLBC), or a direct merger between us and the target in which we offer as consideration shares representing less than 20% of our outstanding stock prior to the merger, would not require a stockholder vote under Delaware law. Such matters could be authorized by our board of directors, which is charged with directing our business and affairs, and we do not expect to consult holders of our securities prior to effecting these acquisitions. Although our management and board of directors will use their best efforts to select targets that will produce the best returns on our stockholders’ equity, there is no guarantee that the acquisition of banking assets in the future will produce management’s and the board of directors’ intended results. 20 Table of Contents If the Acquisition is not approved by our stockholders and/or the stockholders of Service1st, or if the Acquisition Proposal is approved but the Acquisition cannot be consummated or is terminated due to, among other things, our inability to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, we will have no immediate source of revenue. Our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation does not contain any restrictions on our use of funds in connection with the pursuit and consummation of an alternative acquisition. Furthermore, we do not expect to present any alternative acquisition to our stockholders for a vote, except as required under Delaware or other applicable law, or pursuant to stock exchange rules. As a result, you may not have the opportunity to review and approve any alternate acquisition, which would make your investment in us more speculative. If we are unable to effectively maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately or timely report financial results, which could materially adversely affect our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that a public company evaluate the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K for that fiscal year. Section 404 also requires that a public company’s independent registered public accounting firm attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our ability to comply with the annual internal control report requirements of Section 404 upon consummation of the Acquisition will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems and controls across our operations, including Service1st, which has not historically made evaluations and assessments in accordance with Section 404. We expect the implementation of these systems and controls at Service1st to involve significant expenditures, and our systems and controls will become increasingly complex after the consummation of the Acquisition. To effectively implement these systems at Service1st and manage this complexity, we will likely need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. If we are not able to implement the required new or improved controls, or encounter difficulties in the implementation or operation of these controls, our independent registered public accounting firm may be required to issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This failure could cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby become subject to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements also could suffer if our management team or our independent registered public accounting firm were to report a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If any of these events were to occur, our business could be adversely affected. Following the consummation of the Acquisition, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which may require us to take a charge to our earnings and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Following the consummation of the Acquisition, we will maintain an allowance for estimated loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing the inherent losses in our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, the allowance for loan and lease losses for Service1st was $6.4 million on a total of approximately $137.0 million gross loans. Based on these amounts, the percentage of allowance to total loans for Service1st was 4.68% and the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of non-performing loans for Service1st was 82.11%. Pursuant to the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, the allowance for loan losses from the acquired entities does not transfer to the acquiring entity. In addition, the acquiring bank should establish loan loss allowances for the acquired held-for-investment loans in periods after the acquisition, but 21 Table of Contents only for losses incurred on these loans due to credit deterioration after acquisition. Therefore, management will determine the provision for loan losses based upon an analysis of general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolios, and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and such losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Although we expect that the allowance for estimated loan losses will be adequate to absorb any inherent losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Significant increases to the provision for loan losses may be necessary if material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur or the performance of the loan portfolio deteriorates. Additionally, banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for estimated loan losses. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase the allowance for estimated loan losses, it could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Following the consummation of the Acquisition, if we are unable to recruit and retain experienced management personnel and recruit and retain additional qualified personnel, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Our success following the Acquisition will depend in significant part on our ability to retain senior executives and other key personnel in technical, marketing and staff positions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract and retain highly qualified key personnel, either in existing markets and market segments or in new areas that we may enter. If we are unable to recruit and retain an experienced management team or recruit and retain additional qualified personnel, our business, and consequently our sales and results of operations, may be materially adversely affected. Upon consummation of the Acquisition, Service1st will have approximately 47 full-time equivalent, non-union employees. Service1st seeks to employ adequate staffing commensurate with levels of banking activities and customer service requirements for a community bank. Our success following the completion of the Acquisition will depend in part on our ability to retain key customers, and to hire and retain management and employees and successfully manage the broader organization resulting from the Acquisition. Competition for qualified individuals may be intense and key individuals may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a general desire not to remain with us after the Acquisition. Furthermore, we will face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to attract and retain key customers, management or employees or successfully manage the acquired organization, which could result in disruption to our business and negatively impact our operations and financial condition, which in turn could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the Acquisition. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business we may foreclose and take title to real estate, potentially becoming subject to environmental liabilities associated with the properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. Costs associated with investigation or remediation activities can be substantial. If we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. These costs and claims could adversely affect our business and prospects. 22 Table of Contents Changing tax laws, rules and regulations are subject to interpretation by applicable taxing authorities. If interpretations or tax laws, rules and regulations were to change, this may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations after the consummation of the Acquisition. We are subject to various domestic tax laws, rules and regulations. These regulations are subject to change, and applicable laws, rules and regulations are subject to interpretation by the applicable taxing authorities. We attempt to be in compliance with all applicable tax provisions. However, compliance with these tax provisions is not necessarily clear in all cases and taxing authorities may take a contrary position. Such positions could have an adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. If the tax laws, rules and regulations were amended or if current interpretations of the laws were to change adversely to our interests, the results could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with governmental regulations and changes in laws and regulations and risks from investigations and legal proceedings could be costly and could adversely affect operating results. Following the consummation of the Acquisition, our operations could be impacted by changes in the legal and business environments in which we could operate, as well as the outcome of ongoing government and internal investigations and legal proceedings. Also, as a result of new laws and regulations or other factors, we could be required to curtail or cease certain operations. Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulation, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of the existing legal rules and regulations. Changes that impact the business environment include changes in accounting standards, changes in environmental laws, changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of audits by various tax authorities, and the ability to fully utilize any tax loss carry forwards and tax credits. Compliance-related issues could limit our ability to do business in certain countries. These changes could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to satisfy our commitments and business needs, capital might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including but not limited to inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that limits our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of subsidiary banks, or counterparties participating in the capital markets, could adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. The inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 