Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Company and the Offering We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more operating businesses in the global consumer products and services industry. We are currently in the process of evaluating and identifying prospective target businesses concerning a business combination but may be unable to complete a business combination. We will not generate any revenues or income until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If we expend the $50,000 in proceeds from our initial public offering held outside of the trust account and up to $4,100,000 on the balance of the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking a business combination but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. We will liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination. Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, we have 24 months after consummation of our initial public offering in which to complete a business combination. If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, our corporate existence will cease, in accordance with our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. We view this obligation to liquidate as an obligation to our stockholders and that investors will make an investment decision, relying, at least in part, on this provision. Thus, without the affirmative vote cast at a meeting of stockholders of at least 95% of the common stock issued in our initial public offering, neither we nor our board of directors will take any action to amend or waive any provision of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to allow us to survive for a longer period of time. In addition, we will not support, directly or indirectly, or in any way endorse or recommend, that stockholders approve an amendment or modification to such provision if it does not appear we will be able to consummate a business combination within the foregoing time period. Our founding stockholders have waived their rights to participate in Table of Contents any liquidation distribution with respect to their founder shares, and the shares of common stock underlying any insider warrants acquired by a founding stockholder immediately prior to our initial public offering. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants, which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of liquidation from our remaining assets outside of the trust account. In addition, our sponsor has agreed to indemnify us for all claims of creditors to the extent that we fail to obtain valid and enforceable waivers from vendors, service providers, prospective target business or other entities in order to protect the amounts held in trust. We believe the fee income from the sponsor’s $1.6 billion assets under management (as of December, 31, 2007) will be sufficient to cover its indemnification obligations; however, we cannot guarantee that our sponsor will be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations. We cannot assure you that other provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation will not be amended other than the time period during which we must consummate a business combination. Although we believe that a vote to amend or waive any provision of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation would likely take place only to allow additional time to consummate a pending business combination, we cannot assure you that other provisions relating to our consummation of a business combination of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation will not be amended or waived by the affirmative vote cast at a meeting of stockholders of at least 95% of the common stock issued in our initial public offering. You will not have any rights or interest in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of our liquidation or if they seek to convert their respective shares of common stock into cash upon a business combination which the stockholder voted against and which is completed by us. In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. If we are forced to liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive significantly less than $9.83 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of the amount held in trust (net of taxes, and other than the portion representing our underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of acquisition by November 27, 2009. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frame and are forced to liquidate the trust account, the per-share liquidation price received by our public stockholders from the trust account will be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Upon the liquidation of the trust account, public stockholders will be entitled to receive (unless there are claims not otherwise satisfied by the amount not held in the trust account or the indemnification provided by our sponsor) approximately $9.83 per share plus interest earned on their pro rata portion of the trust account (net of taxes payable), which includes $9,000,000 ($0.30 per unit) of deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and $8,500,000 ($0.28 per unit) of the purchase price of the insider warrants. Our sponsor has agreed to indemnify us for all creditor claims to the extent we do not obtain valid and enforceable waivers from vendors, service providers, prospective target businesses or other entities, in order to protect the amounts held in the trust account. In the event that we liquidate and it is subsequently determined that the reserve for claims and liabilities is insufficient, stockholders who received a return of funds from the liquidation of our trust account could be liable for claims made by our creditors. We assume that in the event we liquidate we will not have to adopt a plan to provide for payment of claims that may potentially be brought against us. Should this assumption prove to be incorrect, we may have to adopt such a plan upon our liquidation, which could result in the per-share liquidation amount to our stockholders being significantly less than $9.83 per share, without taking into account any interest earned on the trust account (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account). Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate the trust account in the event we do not complete a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait more than 24 months before receiving liquidation distributions. We have 24 months following the consummation of our initial public offering in which to complete a business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate a business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought conversion of their shares. Only after Table of Contents the expiration of this full time period will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete a business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act with respect to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless the warrants comprising the units sold in our initial public offering and the shares of common stock underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders to (i) exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. We expect most purchasers of our warrants will hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently you are unlikely to receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. If you fail to receive notice of redemption from a third party and your warrants are redeemed for nominal value, you will not have recourse to the company. Although we are required to use our commercially reasonable efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. Holders of our warrants (other than insider warrants) will be able to exercise the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares of common stock are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. In addition, under the terms of the warrant agreement holders of our warrants will not be able to net cash settle the warrants. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our commercially reasonable efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares of common stock underlying the warrants following completion of our initial public offering to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we cannot assure that we will be able to do so and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. Such expiration would result in each holder paying the full unit purchase price solely for the shares of common stock underlying the unit. In addition, we have agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to register the shares of common stock underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the existing warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares of common stock underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Unlike most other blank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (other than our founding stockholders with respect to their founder shares, and the shares of common stock underlying any insider warrants acquired by a founding stockholder immediately prior to our initial public offering) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) public stockholders owning 30% or more of the Table of Contents shares sold in our initial public offering do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. To date, most other blank check companies have a conversion threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which you may believe is not suitable for us, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. There can be no assurance that any converting stockholder will receive equal to or more than his, her or its full invested amount. Unlike most other blank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (other than our founding stockholders with respect to their founder shares, and the shares of common stock underlying any insider warrants acquired by a founding stockholder immediately prior to our initial public offering) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the trust account. Unlike most other blank check offerings to date, which have a 20% threshold, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third-party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effect the most attractive business combination available to us. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims against us by third parties to the extent of distributions received by them. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until 24 months from the consummation of our initial public offering. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection therewith, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that potentially may be brought against us within the subsequent ten years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could potentially be brought against us within the subsequent ten years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that potentially may be brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. In the event of our liquidation, we may have to adopt a plan to provide for the payment of claims that may potentially be brought against us, which could result in the per-share liquidation amount to our stockholders being significantly less than $9.83, without taking into account any interest earned on the trust account (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account). Table of Contents Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Third-party claims may include contingent or conditional claims and claims of directors and officers entitled to indemnification under our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. We intend to pay any claims, to the extent sufficient to do so, from our funds not held in trust. Although we will seek to have all vendors, service providers and prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Even if they execute such agreements, they could bring claims against the trust account including but not limited to fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third-party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the $9.83 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account), due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and liquidate the company, our sponsor will be liable if we did not obtain a valid and enforceable waiver from any vendor, service provider, prospective target business or other entity of any rights or claims to the trust account, to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account on the date of the consummation of our initial public offering. We believe the fee income from the sponsor’s $1.6 billion assets under management (as of December 31, 2007) will be sufficient to cover its indemnification obligations; however, we cannot assure you that our sponsor will be able to satisfy those obligations. The indemnification provisions are set forth in an insider letter to be executed on behalf of our sponsor. The insider letter specifically sets forth that in the event we obtain a valid and enforceable waiver of any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our stockholders from a vendor, service provider, prospective target business or other entity, the indemnification from our sponsor will not be available. In addition, none of our officers have agreed to indemnify the trust in their personal capacity from claims from third party vendors, service providers, prospective target business, or other entities. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. In certain circumstances, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after the termination of our existence by operation of law, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. Table of Contents If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being placed in trust together with interest earned on the trust account available to us are insufficient to allow us to operate for at least 24 months following the consummation of our initial public offering, we may not be able to complete a business combination. We currently believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account together with up to $4,100,000 of interest earned on the trust account that may be released to us will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least 24 months following the consummation of our initial public offering, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. Based upon the experience of the members of our board and consultation with them regarding a reasonable budget for consummating a transaction of this kind and nature, and a review of budgets publicly disclosed by blank-check companies, we determined that this was an appropriate approximation of the expenses. As a general matter, our board of directors will be asked to approve any significant expenditures in connection with a potential acquisition or any expenditure associated with the pursuit of a potential business combination that may cause us to be unable to complete a business combination within 24 months due to a lack of sufficient remaining working capital. However, if costs are higher than expected we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, any potential target acquisitions. In such event, we would need to obtain additional funds from our initial stockholders or customer source to continue operating. We anticipate that up to $50,000 not held in the trust account will be reserved for working capital purposes. We could use a portion of these funds to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential business combination or to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target acquisition. We could also use a portion of these funds as a down payment, “reverse break-up fee” (a provision in a merger agreement designed to compensate the target for any breach by the buyer which results in a failure to close the transaction), or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target acquisitions from “shopping” around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such target acquisitions) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target acquisition and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise) or if we agree to a reverse break-up fee and subsequently were required to pay such fee as a result of our failure to consummate the transaction in accordance with the merger agreement, we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, any other potential target acquisitions. In such event, we would need to obtain additional funds from our initial stockholders or another source to continue operations. Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination. Upon consummation of a business combination, the role of our current officers and directors in the target business cannot presently be fully ascertained. While we expect that one or more of our current officers, particularly Scott LaPorta, our Chief Executive Officer, and directors will remain in senior management or as a director following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. If we acquire a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that our current officers and our directors would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company, following a business combination, it may be less likely that our current officers or directors would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction pursuant to the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. Negotiated retention of officers and directors after a business combination may create a conflict of interest. If, as a condition to a potential business combination, we negotiate to have our current officers and directors retained after the consummation of the business combination, including the anticipated retention of Scott LaPorta, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. The ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that our current officers and directors remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business combination. Although we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, holding and disposition of target companies and assets. Table of Contents We may incur significant taxes in connection with effecting acquisitions; holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets; and disposing of target companies and assets. Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination will be required to provide our stockholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the pool of prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with the requirements of U.S. federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP, and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards, a likely possibility considering the international nature of the global consumer products and services industry in general, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, including numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information, as of November 2, 2007, we have identified approximately 129 blank check companies that have gone public since August 2003. Of these companies, only 38 have completed a business combination, while seven will be or have been liquidating. The remaining approximately 84 blank check companies have more than $10.5 billion in trust and are seeking to complete business acquisitions. Of these companies, only 24 have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations but have not yet consummated business combinations. Accordingly, there are approximately 49 blank check companies with more than $8.1 billion in trust that have filed registration statements and are seeking, or will be seeking, to complete business combinations. Furthermore, the fact that only 38 of such companies have completed business combinations and only 24 other of such companies have entered into definitive agreements for business combinations, and seven have liquidated or will be liquidating, may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive targets available to such entities or that many targets are not inclined to enter into a transaction with a blank check company, and therefore we also may not be able to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate an initial transaction within the prescribed time period, our purpose will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies, and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the type of businesses that we may intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of consumer products and services properties, assets and entities. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous target acquisitions that we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target acquisitions that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target acquisitions. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target acquisitions. Also, our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We cannot assure you we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Table of Contents Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with an unidentified target acquisition, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the U.S. securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as entitlement to all the interest earned on the funds deposited in the trust account. Because we are not subject to these rules, including Rule 419, our units will be immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances than we would if we were subject to such rule. Since we have not yet selected any target acquisition with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations and investors will be relying on management’s ability to source business transactions. Because we have not yet identified a prospective target acquisition, investors in our units currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target acquisition. Although our management will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target acquisition, we cannot assure you that they will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a target acquisition. Except for the limitation that a target acquisition have a fair market value of at least 80% of the amount held in trust (net of taxes and other than the portion representing our underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of the acquisition, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. Investors will be relying on management’s ability to source business transactions, evaluate their merits, conduct or monitor diligence and conduct negotiations. However, we will not acquire an affiliate of our sponsor or any of our officers or directors, including portfolio companies and other investments or interests held by our sponsor, officers and directors. In addition, we will not consider business opportunities that were presented to our sponsor or its employees or opportunities that our sponsor or its employees have become aware of prior to the consummation of the offering. We may issue shares of common stock to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. We have 19,120,598 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares of common stock upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants (including insider warrants)) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the effective date of the registration statement, we are likely to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to the holders of our common stock; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely will also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Table of Contents Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to complete a business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; • covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, to acquire capital assets or make additional acquisitions; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. In the event we seek to acquire businesses located in foreign jurisdictions, we could experience delays and increased costs due to cultural, legal and administrative differences with respect to the acquisition process, including due diligence, negotiating and closing the transaction. In the event we seek to acquire businesses located in certain foreign jurisdictions such as South America or Asia, we could experience delays due to the cultural, legal and administrative differences with respect to the acquisition process, including due diligence, negotiating and closing the transaction, that we may not experience if we were to make an acquisition in jurisdictions such as the United States. In the event we experience such delays it could increase the amount of cash we require to use outside of the trust account for working capital purposes and result in a longer period of time to present a business combination to stockholders and ultimately close a business combination. Foreign, cultural, political and financial market conditions could impair our international operations and financial performance. Our target acquisition may be based outside of the United States and/or some or all of our operations may be conducted or products may be sold in countries where economic growth has slowed; or where economies have suffered economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation or where the ability to repatriate funds has been delayed or impaired in recent years. The economies of other foreign countries important to our operations, including other countries in Europe, Latin America and Asia, could also suffer slower economic growth or economic, social and/or political instability in the future. International operations, including manufacturing and sourcing operations (and the international operations of our customers), are subject to inherent risks which could adversely affect us, including, among other things: • new restrictions on access to markets; • lack of developed infrastructure; • inflation; • fluctuations in the value of currencies; • changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including tax laws, accounting standards, environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws; Table of Contents • political and economic instability; • increases in duties and taxation; • restrictions on transfer of funds; • restrictions on foreign ownership of property and/or expropriation of foreign-owned assets; and • other adverse changes in policies, including monetary (including, without limitation, local interest rates), tax and/or lending policies, encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries. Should any of these risks occur, our ability to export our products or repatriate profits could be impaired and we could experience a loss of sales and profitability from our international operations. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our business operations and financial results. We may effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States. If we did, we would be subject to many special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ governing jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; and • employment regulations. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will likely govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Table of Contents Our business combination may take the form of an acquisition of less than a 100% ownership interest, which could adversely affect our decision-making authority and result in disputes between us and third party minority owners. Our business combination may take the form of an acquisition of less than a 100% ownership interest in certain properties, assets or entities. In such case, the remaining minority ownership interest may be held by third parties who may or may not have been involved with the properties, assets or entities prior to our acquisition of such ownership interest. With such an acquisition, we will face additional risks, including the additional costs and time required to investigate and otherwise conduct due diligence on holders of the remaining ownership interest and to negotiate stockholder agreements and similar agreements. Moreover, the subsequent management and control of such a business will entail risks associated with multiple owners and decision-makers. Such acquisitions also involve the risk that third-party owners of the minority ownership interest might become insolvent or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Such third parties may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such acquisitions may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the third-party owners of the minority ownership interest would have full control over the business entity. Disputes between us and such third parties may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, such third parties might result in subjecting assets owned by the business entity to additional risk. We may also, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of such third parties. For example, in the future we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by the business entity. Such a guarantee may be on a joint and several basis with the third-party owners of the minority ownership interest in which case we may be liable in the event such third parties default on their guaranty obligation. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including our officers, directors and others who may not continue with us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including Jason N. Ader, the Chairman of our board of directors, and Scott LaPorta, our Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of our board of directors. Our key personnel will also be officers, directors, and/or members of other entities, who we anticipate we will have access to on an as needed basis, although there are no assurances that any such personnel will be able to devote either sufficient time, effort or attention to us when we need it. Other than Scott LaPorta, none of our key personnel, including our other executive officers, have entered into employment or consultant agreements with us. Further, although we presently anticipate that our officers will remain associated in senior management, advisory or other positions with us following a business combination, some or all of the management associated with a target acquisition may also remain in place. As such, our key personnel may not continue to provide services to us after the consummation of a business combination if we are unable to negotiate employment or consulting agreements with them in connection with or subsequent to the business combination, the terms of which would be determined at such time between the respective parties. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the business combination. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target acquisition, the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. We will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various operational issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers and directors will allocate some portion of their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Table of Contents Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Our executive officers and directors are currently employed by other entities and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If other entities require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to their business and affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our sponsor, officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our sponsor, officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with additional entities, including other “blank check” companies which may be engaged in activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our sponsor, officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties or other contractual obligations. No formal procedures have been established to determine how conflicts of interest that may arise due to duties or obligations owed to other entities will be resolved. Accordingly, because of their pre-existing fiduciary duties, our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our founding stockholders currently own shares of our common stock which will not participate in the liquidation of the trust account and a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a business combination. Our founding stockholders own founder shares (and with respect to certain founding stockholders, also insider warrants) that were issued prior to our initial public offering, but have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those founder shares (and the common stock underlying any insider warrants acquired by a founding stockholder immediately prior to our initial public offering) upon the liquidation of the trust account if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Additionally, our sponsor and Chief Executive Officer have purchased 7,500,000 insider warrants and 1,000,000 insider warrants, respectively, directly from us in an insider private placement transaction immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering at a purchase price of $1.00 per warrant for a total purchase price of $8,500,000. The founder shares and insider warrants acquired prior to our initial public offering by our founding stockholders and/or the insider warrant holders will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our sponsor and certain of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target acquisition and completing a business combination. Consequently, our officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target acquisition may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest, and as a result of such conflicts management may choose a target acquisition that is not in the best interests of our stockholders. The requirement that we complete a business combination by November 27, 2009 may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business combination. We will liquidate and promptly distribute only to our public stockholders the amount in our trust account (subject to our obligations under Delaware law for claims of creditors) plus any remaining net assets if we do not effect a business combination by November 27, 2009. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business combination will be aware of this requirement. Consequently, such target businesses may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business combination, knowing that if we do not complete a business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete a business combination with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the time limits referenced above. The requirement that we complete a business combination by November 27, 2009 may motivate our sponsor to approve a business combination during that time period so that they may get their out-of-pocket expenses reimbursed. Our sponsor may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses it has incurred in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations. The funds for such reimbursement will be provided from the money not held in trust. Such Table of Contents payments may be significant and there can be no assurance that they will not exceed our working capital budget. In the event that we do not effect a business combination by November 27, 2009, then any expenses incurred by our sponsor in excess of the money being held outside of the trust will not be repaid as we will liquidate at such time. On the other hand, if we complete a business combination within such prescribed time period, those expenses will be repaid by the target business. Consequently, our sponsor may have an incentive to complete a business combination other than solely in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain of our officers or directors, or their affiliates, have never been associated with a blank check company and such lack of experience could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. Certain of our officers or directors, or their affiliates, have never been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team to identify and complete a business combination using the proceeds of our initial public offering. Our management’s lack of experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and could result in our having to liquidate our trust account. If we liquidate, our public stockholders could receive less than the amount they paid for our securities, causing them to incur significant financial losses. Other than with respect to the business combination, our officers, directors, security holders and their respective affiliates may have a pecuniary interest in certain transactions in which we are involved, and may also compete with us. We will not pursue an acquisition of an affiliate of our sponsor or of any of our officers or directors, including portfolio companies and other investments or interests held by our sponsor, officers and directors. However, other than with respect to the business combination, we have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Accordingly, such parties may have an interest in certain transactions such as strategic partnering or joint venturing in which we are involved, and may also compete with us. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If our common stock becomes subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock will be subject to these “penny stock” rules. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. Initially, we may only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single asset or property. Table of Contents The net proceeds from our initial public offering and the insider private placement (excluding $9,584,655 held in the trust account which represents deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) provided us with approximately $304,574,305 ($305,543,236 at December 31, 2007 including accrued interest) which is held in trust and may be used by us to complete a business combination. We currently have no restrictions on our ability to seek additional funds through the sale of securities or through loans. As a consequence, we could seek to acquire a target business that has a fair market value significantly in excess of 80% of the amount held in trust (net of taxes and excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount). Although as of the date of this report we have not engaged or retained, had any discussions with, or entered into any agreements with any third party regarding any such potential financing transactions, we could seek to fund such a business combination by raising additional funds through the sale of our securities or through loan arrangements. However, if we were to seek such additional funds, any such arrangement would only be consummated simultaneously with our consummation of a business combination. Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time. However, should our management elect to pursue more than one acquisition of target businesses simultaneously, our management could encounter difficulties in consummating all or a portion of such acquisitions due to a lack of adequate resources, including the inability of management to devote sufficient time to the due diligence, negotiation and documentation of each acquisition. Furthermore, even if we complete the acquisition of more than one target business at substantially the same time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate the operations of such target businesses. Accordingly, the prospects for our ability to effect our business strategy may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Furthermore, since our business combination may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or operating businesses at the same time and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their assets or businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies, and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the type of businesses that we may intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of consumer products and services properties, assets and entities. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous target acquisitions that we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target acquisitions that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target acquisitions. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target acquisitions. Also, our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the insider private placement will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, because we have not yet identified a target Table of Contents acquisition to acquire, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the insider private placement prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in the course of searching for suitable target acquisition that we can afford to acquire, or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares of common stock from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target acquisition candidate. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not in the trust account to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to such payment or otherwise), we may not have a sufficient amount of working capital available outside of the trust account to conduct due diligence and pay other expenses related to finding a suitable business combination without securing additional financing. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would liquidate the trust account, resulting in a loss of a portion of your investment. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund continuing operations and/or growth. The failure to secure additional financing if required could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to develop and grow, even if we consummate a business combination. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our founding stockholders control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our founding stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock (assuming they did not purchase units in our initial public offering, in which case they will own a larger percentage). This ownership interest, together with any other acquisitions of our shares of common stock (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow the founding stockholders to collectively influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. In the event that the founding stockholders acquired shares of our common stock in our initial public offering or in the aftermarket, we anticipate that they would vote such shares in favor of our initial business combination. Thus, additional purchases of shares of our common stock by our founding stockholders would likely allow them to exert additional influence over the approval of our initial business combination. Factors that would be considered in making such additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our common stock. The interests of our founding stockholders and your interests may not always align and taking actions which require approval of a majority of our stockholders, such as selling the company, may be more difficult to accomplish. If we redeem our public warrants, the insider warrants, which are non-redeemable as long as the insider warrant holders or their permitted transferees hold them, could provide the insider warrant holders with the ability to realize a larger gain than the public warrant holders. The warrants held by our public warrant holders may be called for redemption at any time after the warrants become exercisable: • in whole and not in part; • at a price of $.01 per warrant; • upon not less than 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption to each warrant holder; • if, and only if, the last sale price of the common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share, for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending on the third business day prior to the notice of redemption to warrant holders. In addition, we may not redeem the public warrants unless the warrants comprising the units sold in our initial public offering and the shares of common stock underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. Table of Contents As a result of the insider warrants not being subject to the redemption features to which our publicly held warrants are subject, the insider warrant holders, or their permitted transferees, could realize a larger gain than our public warrant holders in the event we redeem our public warrants. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with our initial public offering, we issued public warrants to purchase up to 31,948,850 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target acquisition. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares of common stock issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our public warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target acquisition. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. A market for our securities may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. Although our securities have been listed on the American Stock Exchange, an active trading market for our securities may never develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be established and/or sustained. If our founding stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, and the existence of the registration rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our founding stockholders are entitled to require us to register the resale of their founder shares at any time after the date on which such founder shares no longer are subject to a lock-up agreement with our underwriters, which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before 180 days from the consummation of a business combination. If our founding stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their founder shares beneficially owned by them as of the date of this report, then there will be an additional 7,987,213 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. Further, immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, the insider warrant holders purchased in an insider private placement an aggregate of 8,500,000 insider warrants that are identical to the warrants contained in the units sold in our initial public offering, respectively, except that (i) such insider warrants are subject to a lock-up agreement with our underwriters and are not transferable before the consummation of a business combination, subject to certain limited exceptions (such as, in the case of our sponsor, (a) transfers among various funds under our sponsor’s management for rebalancing purposes only and (b) distributions to investors in such funds, provided that such investors agree to be bound by the lock-up agreement, or transfers to relatives and trusts for estate planning purposes), (ii) such insider warrants were purchased pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and will become freely tradable only after they are registered pursuant to a registration rights agreement to be signed in connection with the insider private placement, (iii) the shares underlying the insider warrants are non-redeemable as long as the insider warrant holders or their permitted transferees hold them, and (iv) the insider warrants are exercisable in the absence of an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock underlying the warrants and by means of cashless exercise. If all of the insider warrants are exercised, there will be an additional 8,500,000 shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. This dilution may make it more difficult for us to effect a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, or we may be required to incur additional expenses if we are unable to liquidate after the expiration of the allotted time periods. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the 1940 Act, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: Table of Contents • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the 1940 Act. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trust agent only in U.S. “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the 1940 Act with a maturity of 180 days or less, or in registered money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the 1940 Act. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, liquidation and return of the funds held in this trust account to our public stockholders. If we are deemed to be an investment company at any time, we will be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements under the 1940 Act, which would require additional expenses for which we have not budgeted. Uncertainties in management’s assessment of a target business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. It is possible that, following our initial acquisition, uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental liabilities) of, acquisition or other transaction candidates could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. The potential loss of key customers, management and employees of a target business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. It is possible that, following our initial acquisition, the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. The lack of synergy from an acquisition could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. It is possible that, following our initial acquisition, the inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. We may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of the target acquisition or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that either the target acquisition we select has a fair market value in excess of 80% of the amount held in trust (net of taxes and excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) or that the price we are paying is fair to stockholders unless our board is not able to independently determine that a target acquisition has a sufficient market value. In addition, unless otherwise required by applicable law, our board is not required to obtain a third party Table of Contents valuation of a proposed business acquisition if there is a conflict of interest. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. In addition, in connection with a business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and • a decreased ability of our security holders to sell their securities in certain states. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. Moreover, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock and the terms of and issuance of any such series of preferred stock could reduce the value of our common stock. Although our charter includes a provision that exempts us from anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, we may nonetheless become subject to such provisions, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that could otherwise involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Limitations on a target business’ ability to protect its intellectual property rights, including its trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage. A target business’ products or services, and the processes it uses to produce or provide them, might have been granted U.S. patent protection, might have patent applications pending or might be trade secrets. After a business combination, our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. Our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. We may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components that a target business uses in order to provide its services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running its core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase costs. If a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular product or service, which would reduce our post business combination revenue. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. Table of Contents The high cost or unavailability of materials, equipment, supplies and personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our operations on a timely basis. A target business’ manufacturing operations could be dependent on having sufficient raw materials, component parts and manufacturing capacity available to meet our manufacturing plans at a reasonable cost while minimizing inventories. A target business’ ability to effectively manage our manufacturing operations and meet these goals can have an impact on our business, including our ability to meet our manufacturing plans and revenue goals, control costs and avoid shortages of raw materials and component parts. Raw materials and components of particular concern include steel alloys, copper, carbide, chemicals and electronic components. Our ability to repair or replace equipment damaged or lost in the well can also impact our ability to service our customers after a business combination. People are a key resource to developing, manufacturing and delivering products and services to our customers around the world. A target business’ ability to recruit, train and retain the highly skilled workforce required by our plans will impact our business. A well-trained, motivated work force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Rapid growth presents a challenge to us and our industry to recruit, train and retain our employees while managing the impact of wage inflation and potential lack of available qualified labor in the markets where we could operate. Labor-related actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations, could also negatively impact on our business after a business combination. Compliance with governmental regulations and changes in laws and regulations and risks from investigations and legal proceedings could be costly and could adversely affect operating results. The global consumer industry is subject to regulation and intervention by governments throughout the world. A target business’ operations in the United States and internationally can be impacted by changes in the legal and business environments in which we could operate, as well as the outcome of ongoing government and internal investigations and legal proceedings. Also, as a result of new laws and regulations or other factors, we could be required to curtail or cease certain operations. Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulation, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of the existing legal rules and regulations. In particular, changes in export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries identified by management for immediate focus. Changes that impact the business environment include changes in accounting standards, changes in environmental laws, changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of audits by various tax authorities, and the ability to fully utilize any tax loss carryforwards and tax credits. Compliance-related issues could limit our ability to do business in certain countries. These changes could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries. Uninsured claims and litigation could adversely impact our operating results. After a business combination, we expect to have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available, but no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. This insurance will have deductibles or self-insured retentions and will contain certain coverage exclusions. The insurance will not cover damages from breach of contract by us or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. Insurance and customer agreements in general do not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. We may re-incorporate in another jurisdiction in connection with a business combination, and the laws of such jurisdiction will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. In connection with a business combination, we may relocate the home jurisdiction of our business from Delaware to another jurisdiction, including a non-U.S. jurisdiction. If we determine to do this, the laws of such jurisdiction would likely govern all of our future material agreements. We cannot assure you that the system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction would be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in Delaware or, in the case of a non-U.S. jurisdiction, the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Table of Contents Any such reincorporation and the international nature of the global consumer products and services industry will likely subject us to foreign regulation. Risks Related to the Global Consumer Products and Services Industry Seasonality and weather conditions may cause our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Sales of certain of consumer products and services may be seasonal. For example, sales of outdoor products would increase during warm weather months and decrease during winter. Additionally, sales of home improvement products would be concentrated in the spring and summer months, while sales of consumer electronics would be concentrated in our fourth quarter preceding the holiday season. Weather conditions may also negatively impact sales. For instance, we may not sell as many of certain outdoor recreation products (such as lanterns, tents and sleeping bags) as anticipated if there are fewer natural disasters, such as hurricanes and ice storms; mild winter weather may negatively impact sales of electric blankets, heaters, some health products and smoke or carbon monoxide alarms; and the late arrival of summer weather may negatively impact sales of outdoor camping equipment and grills. Additionally, sales of home improvement products may be negatively impacted by unfavorable weather conditions and other market trends. Periods of inclement weather may reduce the amount of time spent on home improvement projects. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must successfully anticipate changing consumer preferences and buying trends and manage our product line and inventory commensurate with customer demand. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and customer demands in a timely manner. Consumer preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and may change between selling seasons. We must make decisions as to design, development, expansion and production of new and existing product lines. If we misjudge either the market for our products, the purchasing patterns of our retailers’ customers, or the appeal of the design, functionality or variety of our product lines, our sales may decline significantly, and we may be required to mark down certain products to sell the resulting excess inventory or sell such inventory through our outlet stores, or other liquidation channels, at prices that may be significantly lower than our normal wholesale prices, each of which would harm our business and operating results. In addition, we must manage our inventory effectively and commensurate with customer demand. A substantial portion of our inventory may be sourced from vendors located outside the United States. We generally may commit to purchasing products before we receive firm orders from our retail customers and frequently before trends are known. The extended lead times for many of our purchases, as well as the development time for design and deployment of new products, may make it difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing trends. In addition, the seasonal nature of our business may require us to carry a significant amount of inventory prior to the year-end holiday selling season. As a result, we will be vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to misjudgments in the selection and timing of product purchases. If we do not accurately predict our customers’ preferences and acceptance levels of our products, our inventory levels may not be appropriate, and our business and operating results may be adversely impacted. Our business depends, in part, on factors affecting consumer spending that are out of our control. Our business depends on consumer demand for our products and, consequently, is sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, recession and inflation, incidents and fears relating to national security, terrorism and war, hurricanes, floods and other natural disasters, inclement weather, consumer debt, unemployment rates, interest rates, sales tax rates, fuel and energy prices, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security generally. Adverse changes in factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for our products, change the mix of products we sell to a different mix with a lower average gross margin, slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory, thus reducing our sales and harming our business and operating results. Our operations may be dependent upon third-party suppliers whose failure to perform adequately could disrupt our business operations. Table of Contents We may source a significant portion of parts and products from third parties. Our ability to select and retain reliable vendors who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products will impact our success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. We expect not to enter into long-term contracts with our primary vendors and suppliers. Instead, most parts and products will be supplied on a “purchase order” basis. As a result, we may be subject to unexpected changes in pricing or supply of products. Any inability of our suppliers to timely deliver quality parts and products or any unanticipated change in supply, quality or pricing of products could be disruptive and costly to us. Our operating results can be adversely affected by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials and energy. Pricing and availability of raw materials for use in our businesses may be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including general, domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer demand, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility may significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials for us, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During periods of rising prices of raw materials, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass any portion of such increases on to customers. Conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent we have existing inventory, lower margins. As a result, fluctuations in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some products require particular types of glass, paper, plastic, metal, wax, wood or other materials. Supply shortages for a particular type of material can delay production or cause increases in the cost of manufacturing our products. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, petroleum-derivative raw materials such as waxes, resins and plastics have experienced price increases in response to, among other things, higher oil prices. If wax prices, resin prices or other material prices rise further in the future we can expect the cost of goods for our businesses to increase. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pass such cost increases to our customers, and such increases could have a material adverse effect on our margins. Similarly, other energy-intensive raw materials such as metal and glass have experienced price increases in response to higher energy prices. If such prices rise further in the future, we can expect the cost of goods to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. With the growing trend towards consolidation among suppliers of many of raw materials, we may become increasingly dependent upon key suppliers whose bargaining strength is growing. In addition, many of those suppliers have been reducing production capacity of raw materials in the North American market. We may be negatively affected by changes in availability and price of raw materials resulting from this consolidation and reduced capacity, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We may be subject to several production-related risks which could jeopardize our ability to realize anticipated sales and profits. In order to realize sales and operating profits at anticipated levels, we may manufacture or source and deliver in a timely manner products of high quality. Among others, the following factors can have a negative effect on our ability to do these things: • labor difficulties; • scheduling and transportation difficulties; • management dislocation; • substandard product quality, which can result in higher warranty, product liability and product recall costs; • delays in development of quality new products; • changes in laws and regulations, including changes in tax rates, accounting standards, and environmental and occupational laws; Table of Contents • health and safety laws; and • changes in the availability and costs of labor. Any adverse change in the above-listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may manufacture or source a significant portion of our products from Asia and other global markets. Accordingly, our production lead times may be relatively long. Therefore, we may commit to production in advance of firm customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventories, or may find that customers are canceling orders or returning products. Additionally, changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make inventory management more difficult. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition in our industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability, or maintain relationships with future customers. We expect to operate in some highly competitive industries. In these industries, we may compete against numerous other domestic and foreign companies. Competition in the markets in which we expect to operate is based primarily on product quality, product innovation, price and customer service and support, although the degree and nature of such competition will vary by location and product line. We also face competition from the manufacturing operations of some of our potential customers with private label brands. Some of our competitors may be more established in their industries and have substantially greater revenue or resources than we do. Our competitors may take actions to match new product introductions and other initiatives. Our competitors may source their products from third parties, and our ability to obtain a cost advantage through sourcing may be reduced. Certain of our competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us. Further, retailers often demand that suppliers reduce their prices on existing products. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced profits or losses or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To compete effectively in the future in the global consumer products and services industry, among other things, we must: • maintain strict quality standards; • deliver products on a reliable basis at competitive prices; • anticipate and quickly respond to changing consumer demands better than our competitors; • maintain favorable brand recognition and achieve customer perception of value; • effectively market and competitively price our products and services to consumers in several diverse market segments and price levels; and • develop innovative, high-quality products in designs and styles that appeal to consumers of varying groups, tastes and price level preferences, and in ways that favorably distinguish us from our competitors. Our inability to do any of these things could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to develop new or expand any existing customer relationships, our ability to grow our business may be impaired. Table of Contents Our future growth will depend to a significant degree upon our ability to develop new customer relationships and to expand existing relationships with any current customers. We cannot guarantee that new customers will be found, that any such new relationships will be successful when they are in place, or that business with any existing customers will increase. Failure to develop and expand such relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot develop new products in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, we may not be able to compete effectively. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to introduce innovative design extensions for any existing products and to develop, manufacture and market new products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the introduction, manufacturing and marketing of any new products or product innovations, or develop and introduce, in a timely manner, innovations to any existing products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, would harm our ability to successfully grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our results could be adversely affected if the cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations becomes too burdensome. We expect that our operations will be subject to federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, including those that impose workplace standards and regulate the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the handling, generation, emission, release, discharge, treatment, storage and disposal of materials and substances including solid and hazardous wastes. We anticipate that after our initial business combination we will be in material compliance with such laws and regulations and that the cost of maintaining compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. However, due to the nature of our operations and the frequently changing nature of environmental compliance standards and technology, we cannot assure you that future material capital expenditures will not be required in order to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, which may be too burdensome. We may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental remediation obligations. In addition to operational standards, environmental laws also impose obligations on various entities to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Accordingly, we may be liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by us, is a landfill or other location where we have disposed wastes, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to our ownership or operation of the property. There can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination will have been identified, even for those properties where an environmental site assessment has been conducted. We do not anticipate that any of our remediation obligations will have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. However, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement or previously unknown contamination, may give rise to additional unanticipated remediation liabilities that may be material. Changes in the retail industry and markets for consumer products affecting our customers or retailing practices could negatively impact any existing customer relationships and our results of operations. We may sell consumer products to retailers, including club, department store, drug, grocery, mass merchant, sporting goods and specialty retailers, as well as directly to consumers. A significant deterioration in the financial condition of any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We will regularly monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among retailers to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This will require us to shorten our lead time for production in certain cases and more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require us to carry additional inventories. With the growing trend towards retail trade consolidation, we may be increasingly dependent upon key retailers whose bargaining strength is growing. We may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our Table of Contents retailer customers, such as inventory destocking, limitations on access to shelf space, use of private label brands, price demands and other conditions, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Our business could involve the potential for product recalls, product liability and other claims against us, which could affect our earnings and financial condition. In connection with any manufacturing and distribution of consumer products, we may be subject to the Consumer Products Safety Act, which empowers the Consumer Products Safety Commission to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the Consumer Products Safety Commission could require us to repurchase or recall one or more of our products. Additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some cities and states, as well as in other countries in which we may sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. Any repurchase or recall of our products could be costly to us and could damage our reputation. If we were required to remove, or we voluntarily removed, our products from the market, our reputation could be tarnished and we might have large quantities of finished products that we could not sell. We could also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that one of our products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. Although we expect to maintain product liability insurance in amounts that we believe will be reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future or that product liability claims will not exceed the amount of insurance coverage. Additionally, we do not expect to maintain product recall insurance. As a result, product recalls or product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we face potential exposure to unusual or significant litigation arising out of alleged defects in any of our products or otherwise. We plan to spend substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental and other applicable standards. However, compliance with these standards will not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. We do not expect to maintain insurance against many types of claims involving alleged defects in our products that do not involve personal injury or property damage. As a result, these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our product liability insurance program is expected to be an occurrence-based program based on our target’s claims experience and the availability and cost of insurance. We currently do not expect to either self-insure or administer a high retention insurance program for product liability risks. We cannot assure you that our future product liability expenses will not exceed our individual per occurrence self-insured retention. We may not have the resources to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. Our business combination must be with a target acquisition which satisfies the minimum valuation standard at the time of such acquisition, as discussed above. Consequently, we expect to have the ability to effect only a single business combination, although this process may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several consumer products and services businesses. Therefore, at least initially, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of a single business operation. Unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations of entities or assets operating in multiple industries or multiple areas of a single industry, it is probable that we will not have the resources to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity or asset, our lack of diversification may: • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination, and • result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In the event we ultimately determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses or assets and such businesses or assets are owned by different sellers, we may need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase Table of Contents of its business or assets is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other acquisition or acquisitions, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the business combination. With multiple acquisitions, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the businesses or assets into a single operating business. We may have limited ability to evaluate the target business’ management. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the incumbent management of a prospective target business when evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment will prove to be correct. In addition, we cannot assure you that new members that join our management following a business combination will have the necessary skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. Furthermore, the future role of our officers and directors, if any, in the target business following a business combination cannot presently be stated with any certainty. While our current officers and directors may remain associated in senior management or advisory positions with us following a business combination, they may not devote their full time and efforts to our affairs subsequent to a business combination. Moreover, they would only be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with such business combination, which would be negotiated at the same time as the business combination negotiations are being conducted and which may be a term of the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, the ability of such individuals to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. Additionally, we cannot assure you that our officers and directors will have significant experience or knowledge relating to the operations of the particular target business. Following a business combination, we may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement or replace the incumbent management of the target business. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to recruit such managers, or that any such managers we do recruit will have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management, if any. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 