Item 1A. Risk Factors. General Risks Related to our Operations Both our real estate and mineral resources businesses are cyclical in nature. The operating results of our business segments reflect the general cyclical pattern of each segment. While the cycles of each industry do not necessarily coincide, demand and prices in each may drop substantially in an economic downturn. Real estate development of residential lots is further influenced by new home construction activity. Mineral resources may be further influenced by national and international commodity prices, principally for oil and natural gas. Cyclical downturns may materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to achieve some or all of our Triple in FOR strategic initiatives. In 2012, we announced Triple in FOR, new strategic initiatives designed to further enhance shareholder value by accelerating value realization of our real estate and natural resources, optimizing transparency and disclosure, and raising net asset value through strategic and disciplined investments. Our initiatives include: increasing total residential lot sales; increasing oil and natural gas production; increasing total segment EBITDA; expanding reported oil and natural gas resource potential; providing additional information regarding groundwater interests; establishing a progress report on corporate responsibility; pursing growth opportunities which help prove up our asset value and meeting return expectations; developing a low-capital, high-return multifamily business; and accelerating investment in lower-risk oil and natural gas opportunities. 26 Table of Contents All of these activities and initiatives have inherent risks and there remain significant challenges and uncertainties, including economic and general business conditions, that could limit our ability to achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced strategic initiatives and affect our financial results. We may not achieve any or all of these goals and are unable to predict whether these initiatives will produce significant revenues, profits or increases in net asset value. The real estate and mineral resource industries are highly competitive and a number of entities with which we compete are larger and have greater resources, and competitive conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. The real estate and mineral resource industries in which we operate are highly competitive and are affected to varying degrees by supply and demand factors and economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, new housing starts, home repair and remodeling activities, credit availability, consumer confidence, unemployment, housing affordability, changes in oil and natural gas prices, and federal energy policies. The competitive conditions in the real estate industry may result in difficulties acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices, lower sales volumes and prices, increased development costs and delays in construction. We compete with numerous regional and local developers for the acquisition, entitlement, and development of land suitable for development. We also compete with some of our national and regional home builder customers who develop real estate for their own use in homebuilding operations, many of which are larger and have greater resources, including greater marketing and technology budgets. Any improvement in the cost structure or service of our competitors will increase the competition we face. We face intense competition from both major and independent oil and natural gas companies in seeking to acquire desirable producing properties, seeking new properties for future exploration and seeking the human resource expertise necessary to effectively develop properties. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil and natural gas companies. These companies may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and are able to define, evaluate, bid for, purchase and subsequently drill a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit, effectively reducing our ability to participate in drilling on certain of our acreage as a working interest owner. Our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional quality properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully evaluate, select and acquire suitable properties and join in drilling with reputable operators in this highly competitive environment. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected by any of these factors. Our activities are subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. Compliance with these provisions or the promulgation of new environmental laws and regulations may result in delays, may cause us to invest substantial funds to ensure compliance with applicable environmental regulations and can prohibit or severely restrict timber harvesting, real estate development or mineral production activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. Significant reductions in cash flow from slowing real estate, mineral resources or fiber resources market conditions could lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility. We must comply with various covenants contained in our senior secured credit facility, the indenture governing our 3.75% convertible senior notes due 2020, and any other future debt arrangements. Significant reductions in cash flow from slowing real estate, mineral resources or fiber resources market conditions could require us to increase borrowing levels under our revolving loans under our senior secured credit facility or borrow under other debt arrangements and lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility, and ultimately limiting our ability to comply with our debt covenants. Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants under our senior secured credit facility may limit the manner in which we operate. Our senior secured credit facility contains various covenants and conditions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; • make loans, investments or acquisitions; • incur restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create liens; • merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and • transfer or sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Debt within some of our ventures may not be renewed or may be difficult or more expensive to replace. As of December 31, 2012, our unconsolidated joint ventures had approximately $38.4 million of debt, substantially all of which was non-recourse to us. Many lenders have substantially curtailed or ceased making real estate acquisition and development loans. When debt within our ventures matures, some of our ventures may be unable to renew existing loans or secure replacement financing, or replacement financing may be more expensive. If our ventures are unable to renew existing loans or secure replacement financing, we may be required to contribute additional equity to our ventures which could increase our risk or increase our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, or both. If our ventures secure replacement financing that is more expensive, our profits may be reduced. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $294.1 million of consolidated debt outstanding. On February 26, 2013 we issued $125 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.75% convertible senior notes due 2020. Our aggregate borrowing under the revolving line of credit under our senior secured credit facility is $200 million but may be increased up to $300 million, subject to certain conditions. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance these or future debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. 28 Table of Contents Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Current global financial conditions and recent market events have been characterized by increased volatility and the resulting tightening of the credit and capital markets has reduced the amount of available liquidity and overall economic activity. We cannot assure you that debt or equity financing, the ability to borrow funds or cash generated by operations will be available or sufficient to meet or satisfy our initiatives, objectives or requirements. Our inability to access sufficient amounts of capital on terms acceptable to us for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel. These individuals have extensive experience and expertise in our business segments in which they work. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our success will be dependent on our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled personnel in each of our business segments. Risks Related to Our Real Estate Operations Tepid demand for new housing or commercial tracts in the markets where we operate could adversely impact our profitability. The residential development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, such as employment levels, availability of financing for home buyers, interest rates, consumer confidence and housing demand. Adverse changes in these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand for lots for new homes in these areas. Despite improved single-family housing market conditions in some markets, aggregate annual new home starts remain substantially below historical norms. Current mortgage credit standards continue to limit the availability of mortgage loans to acquire new and existing homes. Decline in housing demand could negatively affect our real estate development activities, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, the market value of undeveloped land and lots held by us, including commercial tracts, can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and real estate market conditions. If there are significant adverse changes in economic or real estate market conditions, we may have to hold land in inventory longer than planned. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or lower returns and adversely affect our liquidity. Development of real estate entails a lengthy, uncertain and costly entitlement process. Approval to develop real property entails an extensive entitlement process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local governments. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects must generally comply with local land development regulations and may need to comply with state and federal regulations. The process to comply with these regulations is usually lengthy and costly, may not result in the approvals we seek, and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities, which may adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our real estate development operations are currently concentrated in the major markets of Texas, and a significant portion of our undeveloped land holdings are concentrated in Georgia. As a result, our financial results are dependent on the economic growth and strength of those areas. The economic growth and strength of Texas, where the majority of our real estate development activity is located, are important factors in sustaining demand for our real estate development activities. Further, the future economic growth and real estate development opportunities in broad area around Atlanta, Georgia may be 29 Table of Contents adversely affected if its infrastructure, such as roads, utilities, and schools, are not improved to meet increased demand. There can be no assurance that these improvements will occur. As a result, any adverse impact to the economic growth and health, or infrastructure development, of those areas could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our real estate development operations are highly dependent upon national, regional and local homebuilders. We are highly dependent upon our relationships with national, regional, and local homebuilders to purchase lots in our residential developments. If homebuilders do not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, we enter into contracts to sell lots to builders. A builder could decide to delay purchases of lots in one of our developments due to adverse real estate conditions wholly unrelated to our areas of operations, such as the corporate decisions regarding allocation of limited capital or human resources. Further, home mortgage credit standards have tightened substantially and many markets have excess housing inventory so fewer new houses are being constructed and sold. As a result, some builders are experiencing liquidity shortfalls and may be unwilling or unable to close on previously committed lot purchases and, upon the occurrence of any such event, we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover any damages from such builders. As a result, we may sell fewer lots and may have lower sales revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our strategic partners may have interests that differ from ours and may take actions that adversely affect us. We enter into strategic alliances or venture relationships as part of our overall strategy for particular developments or regions. While these partners may bring development experience, industry expertise, financing capabilities, and local credibility or other competitive attributes, they may also have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation or financial condition of a partner deteriorates. A formal agreement with a partner may also involve special risks, such as: we may not have voting control over the venture; the venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments; the venture partner could experience financial difficulties and actions by a venture partner may subject property owned by the venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the venture agreement or have other adverse consequences. As a result, actions by a partner may have the result of subjecting venture property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated by the terms of the applicable agreement or have other adverse consequences. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any such arrangements will achieve the results anticipated or otherwise prove successful. Our partners’ inability to fund their capital commitments and otherwise fulfill their operating and financial obligations related to a venture could have an adverse effect on the venture and us. When we enter into a venture, we may rely on our venture partner to fund its share of capital commitments to the venture and to otherwise fulfill its operating and financial obligations. Failure of a venture partner to timely satisfy its funding or other obligations to the venture could require us to elect whether to increase our financial or other operating support of the venture in order to preserve our investment, which may reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses, or to not fund such obligations, which may subject the venture and us to adverse consequences. Delays or failures by governmental authorities to take expected actions could reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses on certain real estate development projects. We rely on governmental utility and special improvement districts (“SID”) to issue bonds as a revenue source for the districts to reimburse us for qualified expenses, such as road and utility infrastructure costs. Bonds 30 Table of Contents must be supported by districts tax revenues, usually from ad valorem taxes. Slowing new home sales, decreasing real estate prices or difficult credit markets for bond sales can reduce or delay district bond sale revenues, causing such districts to delay reimbursement of our qualified expenses. Failure to receive timely reimbursement for qualified expenses could adversely affect our cash flows and reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses on certain real estate development projects. We are unable to control the approval or timing of reimbursements or other payments from the SID in which our Cibolo Canyons project is located. Delays or failure by the SID to approve infrastructure costs for reimbursement or to issue bonds, or lower than expected revenues generated from taxes, could negatively impact the timing of our future cash flows. The SID in which our Cibolo Canyons project is located is an independent governmental entity not affiliated with us. The SID has an elected governing board of directors comprised of members living within the district, none of whom are affiliated with us. Reimbursement of our infrastructure costs, and timing of payment, is subject to approval and determination by the SID. The SID is also obligated to pay to us certain amounts generated from hotel occupancy revenues and other resort sales revenues collected as taxes by the SID within the district. The amount of revenues collected by the SID will be impacted by hotel occupancy and resort sales, each of which could be lower than projected. If the revenues collected by the SID are lower than expected, then the amount of our future cash flows from the SID could be adversely affected. The amount and timing of receipts form the SID will be impacted by decisions made by the SID in regard to whether and when to issue bonds that would generate funds to support payments to us. Decisions by the SID to delay approval of reimbursements or issuance of bonds could negatively impact the timing of our future cash flows. Unfavorable changes in apartment markets and economic conditions could adversely affect multifamily occupancy levels and rental rates. Market and economic conditions may significantly affect multifamily occupancy levels and rental rates and therefore profitability. In general, factors that may adversely affect market and economic conditions include the following: • the economic climate, which may be adversely impacted by a reduction in jobs, industry slowdowns and other factors; • local conditions, such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, apartment homes; • declines in household formation; • favorable residential mortgage rates; • rent control or stabilization laws, or other laws regulating rental housing, which could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and; • competition from other available apartments and other housing alternatives and changes in market rental rates. Any of these factors would adversely affect our ability to achieve desired operating results from our multifamily communities. Development and construction risks could impact our profitability. We may develop and construct multifamily communities through wholly-owned projects or through ventures with unaffiliated parties. Our development and construction activities may be exposed to the following risks: • we may incur construction costs for a property that exceed original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other costs or unforeseen environmental or other conditions, which could make completion of the property uneconomical, and we may not be able to increase rents to compensate for the increase in construction costs; 31 Table of Contents • we may be unable to complete construction and/or lease-up of a community on schedule and meet financial goals for development projects; • an adverse incident during construction or development could adversely affect our ability to complete construction, conduct operations or cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment, pollution or other environmental contamination, regulatory penalties, suspension of operations, and attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation; and • because occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, we may be unable to meet our profitability goals for that community. Possible difficulty of selling multifamily communities could limit our operational and financial flexibility. Purchasers may not be willing to pay acceptable prices for multifamily communities that we wish to sell. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things. Also, if we are unable to sell multifamily communities or if we can only sell multifamily communities at prices lower than are generally acceptable, then we may have to take on additional leverage in order to provide adequate capital to execute our business strategy. Increased competition and increased affordability of residential homes could limit our ability to retain residents, lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents. Our multifamily communities compete with numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including other multifamily communities and single-family rental homes, as well as owner occupied single and multifamily homes. Competitive housing in a particular area and the increasing affordability of owner occupied single and multifamily homes caused by declining housing prices, mortgage interest rates and government programs to promote home ownership could adversely affect our ability to retain residents, lease apartment homes and increase or maintain rents. Acquired multifamily development sites and communities may not achieve anticipated results. We may selectively acquire multifamily communities that meet our investment criteria. Our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following risks: • an acquired community may fail to achieve expected occupancy and rental rates and may fail to perform as expected; • we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations; • our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping the acquired property may prove inaccurate, causing us to fail to meet profitability goals; and • we may be unable to obtain third party co-investment for development of communities. Failure to succeed in new markets may limit our growth. We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. Our historical experience in existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including, among others: • an inability to evaluate accurately local apartment or housing market conditions and local economies; • an inability to obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; • an inability to hire and retain key personnel; and • lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Mineral Resources Operations We may be unable to realize the expected benefits of acquiring Credo, and the Credo acquisition may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of the Credo acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to achieve the synergies and value creation from combining our existing business with that of Credo. It will also depend, in part, on our ability to promptly and effectively integrate Credo’s operations into our existing operations and integrate Credo’s employees into our company. The integration of Credo’s business may result in unforeseen expenses. In addition, our increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio following the Credo acquisition may have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business or economic conditions and will increase interest costs. In addition, it is possible that, in connection with the Credo acquisition, our capital expenditures could be higher than we anticipated and that we may not realize the expected benefits of such capital expenditures. Credo’s leased acreage is subject to expiration in the ordinary course of business and as a result the gross and net acres acquired could decrease materially in subsequent reporting periods if delay rentals are not paid or if the acreage is not held by production. As a result of the Credo acquisition, based on the purchase price allocation, we recorded goodwill and other intangibles of approximately $58.4 million. If we are unable to successfully integrate the Credo operations, there can be no assurance that such changes would not materially impact the carrying value of our goodwill. Our operations are subject to the numerous risks of oil and natural gas drilling and production activities. Our oil and natural gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures, discharges of toxic gases, underground migration and surface spills or mishandling of any toxic fracture fluids, including chemical additives. In addition, title problems, weather conditions and mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment could negatively affect our operations. If any of these or other similar industry operating risks occur, we could have substantial losses. Substantial losses also may result from injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, clean-up responsibilities, environmental damage, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. Expenditures related to drilling activities could lead to higher levels of indebtedness. We expect increasing drilling expenditures that we plan to pay for with cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources in the future to finance all of our planned drilling expenditures. If cash flows from operations decrease for any reason, our ability to undertake exploration and development activities could be adversely affected and we may have to borrow additional capital under our credit facility to finance such activities. Such borrowings, if available, could lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility and limiting our ability to comply with the debt covenants under our credit facility. The lack of availability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploitation and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. From time to time, there are shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, oil field services or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. During times and in areas of increased activity, the demand for oilfield services will also likely rise, and the costs of these services will likely increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. If the lack of availability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, oil field services or qualified personnel 33 Table of Contents were particularly severe in any of our areas of operation, we could be materially and adversely affected. Delays could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations, including the timing of the initiation of production from new wells. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control. Our drilling operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • facility or equipment failure or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • title problems; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • fires, blowouts and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of oil and natural gas or well fluids. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental contamination, loss of wells, regulatory penalties, suspension of operations, and attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. We may not find any commercially productive oil and natural gas reservoirs. There is no assurance that new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our capital investment in the wells. In addition, drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after drilling, operating and other costs are unprofitable. Hydraulic fracturing, the process used for extracting oil and natural gas from shale and other formations, has come under increased scrutiny and could be the subject of further regulation that could impact the timing and cost of extractive activities. Hydraulic fracturing is the primary production method used to extract reserves located in many of the unconventional oil and natural gas plays in the United States. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) is currently engaged in a long-term study mandated by Congress regarding the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources that could influence federal and state legislative and regulatory developments. Pending federal regulatory developments include draft permitting guidance issued by EPA to regulate the underground injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids that use diesel fuel as a fracking fluid or propping agent; EPA air regulations for the oil and natural gas industry, issued in 2012, that among other things include a requirement that, commencing in January 2015, “reduced emissions completion” technology be used after hydraulic fracturing — although in response to a petition challenging these regulations, EPA has filed a motion with the D.C. Circuit to delay the challenges while it reconsiders unspecified aspects of the regulations; and U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management regulations originally proposed in May 2012 but which, in response to public comments, are to be revised and proposed again in the first quarter of 2013, to govern hydraulic fracturing on federal and tribal lands. Depending on legislation that may ultimately be enacted or regulations that may be adopted at the federal, state and local levels, exploration, exploitation and production activities that entail hydraulic fracturing could be subject to additional regulation and permitting requirements. Individually or collectively, such new legislation or regulation could lead to operational delays, increased costs and other burdens that could delay the development of unconventional oil and natural gas resources from formations that are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could have a material effect on our oil and natural gas production operations and on the operators conducting activities on our minerals and on the cash flows we receive from them. 34 Table of Contents Volatile oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Our cash flows and results of operations are dependent in part on oil and natural gas prices, which are volatile. Oil and natural gas prices also impact the amounts we receive for selling and renewing our mineral leases. Moreover, oil and natural gas prices depend on factors we cannot control, such as: changes in foreign and domestic supply and demand for oil and natural gas; actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; weather; political conditions in other oil-producing countries, including the possibility of insurgency or war in such areas; prices of foreign exports; domestic and international drilling activity; price and availability of alternate fuel sources; the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major currencies; the level and effect of trading in commodity markets; the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures and governmental regulations. Any substantial or extended decline in the price of oil and natural gas could have a negative impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex involving decisions and assumptions in evaluating the available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. Accordingly, these estimates are imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves might vary from those estimated. Any variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of proved reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The estimates of our reserves as of December 31, 2012 are based upon various assumptions about future production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be correct over time. In particular, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves, future net revenue from proved reserves and the standardized measure thereof for our oil and natural gas interests are based on the assumption that future oil and natural gas prices remain the same as the twelve month first-day-of-the-month average oil and natural gas prices for the year ended December 31, 2012. The average realized sales prices as of such date used for purposes of such estimates were $3.00 per thousand cubic feet (“mcf”) of natural gas and $89.26 per barrel of oil. The December 31, 2012 estimates also assume that the working interest owners will make future capital expenditures which are necessary to develop and realize the value of proved reserves. The standardized measure of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated reserves. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. As required by SEC regulations, we base our present value of estimated future oil and natural gas revenues on prices and costs in effect at the time of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our properties will be affected by numerous factors not subject to our control and will be affected by factors such as: • decisions and activities of the well operators; • supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; • actual operating costs; • the amount and timing of capital expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. 35 Table of Contents The timing of production will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flow, which is required by the SEC, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Our reserves and production will decline from their current levels. The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are produced. Our reserves will decline as they are produced which could materially and adversely affect our future cash flow, liquidity and results of operations. A portion of our oil and natural gas production may be subject to interruptions that could have a material and adverse effect on us. A portion of oil and natural gas production from our mineral interests may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including as a result of accidents, weather conditions, loss of gathering, processing, compression or transportation facility access or field labor issues, or intentionally as a result of market conditions such as oil and natural gas prices that the operators of our mineral leases, whose decisions we do not control, deem uneconomic. If a substantial amount of production is interrupted, our business, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may acquire properties that are not as commercially productive as we initially believed. From time to time, we seek to acquire oil and natural gas properties. Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor may they permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Even when problems with a property are identified, we may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements. Moreover, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties. Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be materially and adversely affected by unexpected liabilities. The exploration for, and production of, oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can damage or destroy wells or production facilities, result in injury or death, and damage property and the environment. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operations on our property in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable. In addition, we require third party operators to maintain customary and commercially practicable types and limits of insurance, but potential losses or liabilities may not be covered by such third party’s insurance which may subject us to liability as the mineral estate owner. The occurrence of any of these events and any costs or liabilities incurred as a result of such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate and are unable to ensure their proper operation and profitability. The properties in which we have an interest are currently operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future 36 Table of Contents development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties other than drilling requirements in the lease. Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs and materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, operators determine when and where to drill wells and we have no influence over these decisions. The success and timing of the drilling and development activities on our properties therefore depends upon a number of factors currently outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology, and the operators of our properties may not have the same financial and other resources as other oil and natural gas companies with whom they compete. Further, new wells may not be productive or may not produce at a level to enable us to recover all or any portion of our capital investment where we have a non-operating working interest. The ability to sell and deliver oil and natural gas produced from wells on our mineral interests could be materially and adversely affected if adequate gathering, processing, compression and transportation services are not obtained. The sale of oil and natural gas produced from wells on our mineral interests depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities owned by third parties. These facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions, and may not be available in the future on terms the operator considers acceptable, if at all. Any significant change in market or other conditions affecting these facilities or the availability of these facilities, including due to the failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities on terms acceptable to the operator or at all, could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our Louisiana net mineral acres are subject to prescription of non-use under Louisiana law. A significant portion of our Louisiana net mineral acres were severed from surface ownership and retained by creation of one or more mineral servitudes shortly before our spin-off. Under Louisiana law, a mineral servitude that is not producing minerals or which has not been the subject of good-faith drilling operations will cease to burden the property upon the tenth anniversary of the date of its creation. Upon such event, the mineral rights effectively will revert to the surface owner and we will no longer own the right to lease, explore for or produce minerals from such acreage. Our water interests may require governmental permits, the consent of third parties and/or completion of significant transportation infrastructure prior to commercialization, all of which are dependent on the actions of others. Many jurisdictions require governmental permits to withdraw and transport water for commercial uses, the granting of which may be subject to discretionary determinations by such jurisdictions regarding necessity. In addition, we do not own the executory rights related to our non-participating royalty interest, and as a result, third-party consent from the executor rights owner(s) would be required prior to production. The process to obtain permits can be lengthy, and governmental jurisdictions or third parties from whom we seek permits or consent may not provide the approvals we seek. We may be unable to secure a buyer at commercially economic prices for water that we have a right to extract and transport, and transportation infrastructure across property not owned or controlled by us is required for transport of water prior to commercial use. Such infrastructure can require significant capital and may also require the consent of third parties. We may not have cost effective means to transport water from property we own, lease or manage to buyers. As a result, we may lose some or all of our investment in water assets, or our returns may be diminished. 37 Table of Contents Weather and climate may have a significant and adverse impact on us. Demand for natural gas is, to a significant degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts, among other things, the price we receive for the commodities produced from wells on our mineral interests and, in turn, our cash flow and results of operations. For example, relatively warm temperatures during a winter season generally result in relatively lower demand for natural gas, higher inventory (as less natural gas is used to heat residences and businesses) and, as a result, relatively lower prices for natural gas production. Also, the EPA has proposed regulations for the purpose of restricting greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. Such regulatory and legislative proposals to restrict greenhouse gas emissions, or to address climate change generally, could increase our operating costs as well operators incur costs to comply with new rules. Such increased costs may include installation of new or expanded emissions control systems, purchase of allowances to authorize greenhouse gas emissions, and increased taxes. There also could be an adverse impact on oil and natural gas markets. Risks Related to Our Fiber Resources Operations If the International Paper mill complex in Rome, Georgia were to permanently cease operations, the price we receive for our wood fiber may decline, and the cost of delivering logs to alternative customers could increase. Prior to our 2007 spin-off from Temple-Inland, acquired by International Paper, we entered into an agreement to sell wood fiber to Temple-Inland at market prices, primarily for use at its Rome, Georgia mill complex. The agreement expires at year-end 2013, although we expect to continue sales following expiration of the agreement. A significant portion of our fiber resources revenues are generated through sales to the International Paper Rome, Georgia mill complex, which is a significant consumer of wood fiber within the immediate area in which a substantial portion of our Georgia timberlands are located. If the International Paper mill complex in Rome, Georgia was to permanently cease operations, was not willing to pay for wood fiber at a price we deem acceptable or was to cease purchasing wood fiber from us after the expiration of our agreement at year-end 2013, we may not be able to enter into agreements with alternative customers for the wood fiber, any agreements with alternative customers we do enter into may be for lower rates than we currently receive from International Paper and the cost of delivering wood fiber to such alternative customers could increase. Our ability to harvest and deliver timber may be affected by our sales of timberland and may be subject to other limitations, which could adversely affect our operations. We have sold over 217,000 acres of our timberland in accordance with our near-term strategic initiatives announced in 2009 and from our retail sales program, and we now own directly or through ventures about 121,000 acres with timber. Sales of our timberland reduce the amount of timber that we have available for harvest. In addition, weather conditions, timber growth cycles, access limitations, availability of contract loggers and haulers, and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict harvesting of timberlands as may other factors, including damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought, flooding and other natural disasters. Although damage from such natural causes usually is localized and affects only a limited percentage of the timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will in fact be so limited. As is common in the forest products industry, we do not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to our timberlands. The revenues, income and cash flow from operations for our fiber resources segment are dependent to a significant extent on the pricing of our products and our continued ability to harvest timber at adequate levels. Other Risks The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly The market price of our common stock may be volatile in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly financial results, changes in 38 Table of Contents financial estimates for us by securities analysts and announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. Our financial results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of our common stock could decrease, perhaps significantly. Any volatility or a significant decrease in the market price of our common stock could also negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions using shares of our common stock as consideration. U.S. securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. If were to be the object of securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in our common stock price or for other reasons, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could negatively affect our financial results. Provisions of Delaware law, our charter documents, our shareholder rights plan and the indenture governing the convertible senior notes may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. We have implemented a shareholders’ rights plan, called a poison pill, which would substantially reduce or eliminate the expected economic benefit to an acquirer from acquiring us in a manner or terms not approved by our board of directors. These and other impediments to third party acquisition or change of control could limit the price investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock, which could in turn reduce the market price of our common stock. The repurchase rights in the convertible senior notes triggered by the occurrence of a fundamental change under the terms of the notes, as well as the additional shares of our common stock by which the conversion rate is increased in connection with certain make-whole fundamental change transactions under the terms of the notes could discourage a potential acquirer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 