Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business A decrease in demand for new housing in the markets where we operate could decrease our profitability. The residential development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, such as employment levels, availability of financing for home buyers, interest rates, consumer confidence and housing demand. Adverse changes in these conditions generally, or in the markets 13 Table of Contents where we operate, could decrease demand for lots for new homes in these areas. The current market conditions include a general over-supply of housing, decreased sales volumes for both new and existing homes, and flat to declining home prices. There also has been significant tightening of mortgage credit standards, decreasing the availability of mortgage loans to acquire new and existing homes. A further decline in housing demand could negatively affect our real estate development activities, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, the market value of undeveloped land and buildable lots held by us can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and real estate market conditions. If there are significant adverse changes in economic or real estate market conditions, we may have to hold land in inventory longer than planned. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing project or market. Both our real estate and natural resources businesses are cyclical in nature. The operating results of our business segments reflect the general cyclical pattern of each segment. While the cycles of each industry do not necessarily coincide, demand and prices in each may drop substantially in an economic downturn. Real estate development of residential lots is further influenced by new home construction activity. Natural resources may be further influenced by national and international commodity prices, principally for oil and gas. Cyclical downturns may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Development of real estate entails a lengthy, uncertain, and costly entitlement process. Approval to develop real property entails an extensive entitlement process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local governments. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects must generally comply with local land development regulations and may need to comply with state and federal regulations. The process to comply with these regulations is usually lengthy and costly and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities. The real estate and natural resource industries are highly competitive and a number of entities with which we compete are larger and have greater resources, and competitive conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. The real estate and natural resource industries in which we operate are highly competitive and are affected to varying degrees by supply and demand factors and economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, new housing starts, home repair and remodeling activities, credit availability, and housing affordability. No single company is dominant in any of our industries. We compete with numerous regional and local developers for the acquisition, entitlement, and development of land suitable for development. We also compete with some of our national and regional home builder customers who develop real estate for their own use in homebuilding operations, many of which are larger and have greater resources, including greater marketing and technology budgets. Any improvement in the cost structure or service of our competitors will increase the competition we face. The competitive conditions in the real estate industry result in: • difficulties in acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices; • lower sales volumes; • lower sale prices; • increased development costs; and • delays in construction. Our business and results of operations are negatively affected by the existence of these conditions. 14 Table of Contents Our activities are subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment and otherwise related to the protection of the environment. Compliance with these provisions may result in delays, may cause us to invest substantial funds to ensure compliance with applicable environmental regulations and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. Our real estate operations are currently concentrated in Georgia and Texas. As a result, our financial results are dependent on the economic growth and strength of those areas. The economic growth and strength of Georgia and Texas, where the majority of our real estate development activity is located, are important factors in sustaining demand for our activities. As a result, any adverse change to the economic growth and health of those areas could materially adversely affect our financial results. The future economic growth in certain portions of Georgia in particular may be adversely affected if its infrastructure, such as roads, utilities, and schools, are not improved to meet increased demand. There can be no assurance that these improvements will occur. If we are unable to retain or attract experienced real estate development or natural resources management personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to retain and attract experienced real estate development and natural resources management personnel. The market for these employees is highly competitive. If we cannot continue to retain and attract quality personnel, our ability to effectively operate our business may be significantly limited. Our real estate development operations are increasingly dependent upon national, regional, and local homebuilders, as well as other strategic partners, who may have interests that differ from ours and may take actions that adversely affect us. We are highly dependent upon our relationships with national, regional, and local homebuilders to purchase lots in our residential developments. If homebuilders do not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, our business will be adversely affected. Also, a national homebuilder could decide to delay purchases of lots in one of our developments due to adverse real estate conditions wholly unrelated to our areas of operations. We are also involved in strategic alliances or venture relationships as part of our overall strategy for particular developments or regions. These venture partners may bring development experience, industry expertise, financing capabilities, and local credibility or other competitive assets. Strategic partners, however, may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation of a strategic partner deteriorates. A formal agreement with a venture partner may also involve special risks such as: • we may not have voting control over the venture; • the venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments; • the venture partner could experience financial difficulties; and • actions by a venture partner may subject property owned by the venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the venture agreement or have other adverse consequences. Significant reductions in cash flow from slowing real estate or natural resources market conditions could lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility. Under our senior credit facility, we have a $175 million term loan and a revolving line of credit with a borrowing limit of $290 million. We had drawn $175 million of the term loan and none of the revolving line of credit at year-end 2007. Amounts due under our senior credit facility are secured by certain of our assets. 15 Table of Contents For a further description of our senior credit facility, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources and Liquidity — Senior Credit Facility.” We must comply with various covenants contained in our senior credit facility, and any other future debt arrangements. Significant reductions in cash flow from slowing real estate or natural resources market conditions could lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility, and ultimately limiting our ability to comply with our debt covenants. If we fail to comply with the terms of any of our debt covenants, our lenders will have the right to accelerate the maturity of that debt and foreclose upon the collateral securing that debt. Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Spin-off We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expected to achieve from our spin-off from Temple-Inland. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that we expected would result from our spin-off from Temple-Inland or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. For example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will regard our corporate structure as clearer and simpler than the former Temple-Inland corporate structure or place a greater value on our company as a stand-alone company than on our businesses being a part of Temple-Inland. We have only a limited operating history as an independent, publicly-traded company upon which you can evaluate our performance, and accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any newly independent company encounters. We have only a limited experience operating as an independent, publicly-traded company and performing various corporate functions, including human resources, tax administration, legal (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit, insurance, information technology and telecommunications services, as well as the accounting for items such as equity compensation and income taxes. We may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent, publicly-traded company, and we may experience increased costs associated with performing these functions. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stages of independent business operations, particularly companies such as ours in highly competitive markets. Our agreements with Temple-Inland and Guaranty may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The agreements that we have entered into related to our spin-off from Temple-Inland, including the separation and distribution agreement, employee matters agreement, tax matters agreement and transition services agreement, were prepared in the context of our spin-off from Temple-Inland while we were still part of Temple-Inland and, accordingly, may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. These agreements relate to, among other things, the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between Temple-Inland, Guaranty, and us. Our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our results as a separate company and, therefore, may not be reliable as an indicator of our future financial results. Our historical financial information has been created using our historical results of operations and historical bases of assets and liabilities as part of Temple-Inland. This historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been if we had been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. It also is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future and does not reflect many significant changes that have occurred or will occur in our capital structure, funding, and operations as a result of the spin-off. While our historical results of operations include all costs of Temple-Inland’s real estate development and minerals operations, our historical costs and 16 Table of Contents expenses do not include all of the costs that would have been or will be incurred by us as an independent, publicly-traded company. In addition, our historical financial information does not reflect changes, many of which are significant, that we anticipate will occur or have occurred in our cost structure, financing and operations as a result of the spin-off. These changes include potentially increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and purchasing power. Our effective income tax rate as reflected in our historical financial information also may not be indicative of our future effective income tax rate. Among other things, the rate may be materially affected by: • changes in the mix of our earnings from the various jurisdictions in which we operate; • the tax characteristics of our earnings; and • the timing and results of any reviews of our income tax filing positions in the jurisdictions in which we transact business. If the spin-off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders, and Temple-Inland could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Temple-Inland has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment under applicable sections of the Code. In addition, Temple-Inland has received an opinion from tax counsel that the spin-off so qualifies. The IRS ruling and the opinion rely on certain representations, assumptions, and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the IRS ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions, and undertakings were incorrect. Moreover, the IRS private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion, the IRS could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions, or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, Temple-Inland would be subject to tax as if it had sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our initial public stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them. Under the tax matters agreement between Temple-Inland and us, we would generally be required to indemnify Temple-Inland against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (1) an issuance of our equity securities, a redemption of our equity securities, or our involvement in other acquisitions of our equity securities, (2) other actions or failures to act by us, or (3) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. Our indemnification obligations to Temple-Inland and its subsidiaries, officers, and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify Temple-Inland or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax matters agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. We must abide by certain restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off and may not be able to engage in desirable acquisitions and other strategic transactions following the spin-off. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off to Temple-Inland, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with Temple-Inland and Guaranty, for the two-year period following the distribution, we may be prohibited, except in specified circumstances, from: • issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, • acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, or • engaging in mergers or asset transfers that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the distribution. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. 17 Table of Contents The ownership by our chairman, our executive officers, and some of our other directors of common stock, options, or other equity awards of Temple-Inland or Guaranty may create actual or apparent conflicts of interest. Because of their current or former positions with Temple-Inland, our chairman, substantially all of our executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, and some of our non-employee directors, own shares of common stock of Temple-Inland, options to purchase shares of common stock of Temple-Inland, or other Temple-Inland equity awards. These officers and non-employee directors also own shares of common stock, options to purchase shares of common stock, and other equity awards in Guaranty. The individual holdings of shares of common stock, options to purchase shares of common stock, or other equity awards of Temple-Inland and Guaranty may be significant for some of these persons compared with their total assets. In light of our continuing relationships with Temple-Inland and Guaranty, these equity interests may create actual or apparent conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could benefit or affect the equity holders of Temple-Inland or Guaranty in ways that do not benefit or affect us in the same manner. We may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent, publicly-traded company, and we may experience increased costs after the spin-off or as a result of the spin-off. Following the spin-off, Temple-Inland is obligated contractually to provide to us only those transition services specified in the transition services agreement we have entered into with Temple-Inland and Guaranty. We may be unable to replace in a timely manner or on comparable terms the services or other benefits that Temple-Inland previously provided to us that are not specified in any transition services agreement. After the expiration of the transition services agreement, we may be unable to replace in a timely manner or on comparable terms the services specified in the agreement. Upon expiration of the transition services agreement, many of the services that are covered in the agreement will have to be provided internally or by unaffiliated third parties. We may incur higher costs to obtain these services than we incurred previously. In addition, if Temple-Inland does not continue to perform the services that are called for under the transition services agreement, we may not be able to operate our business as effectively and our profitability may decline. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • a shift in our investor base; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to the seasonality of our business and other factors related to our business; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • overall market fluctuations; and • general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating or financial performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Your percentage ownership in our common stock may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in our common stock may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that have already been granted and that we expect will be granted to our directors and officers in the future. Our 2007 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grant of equity-based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options, stock appreciation rights, phantom equity awards and other equity-based awards to our directors, officers and other employees. In the future, we may issue additional equity securities, 18 Table of Contents subject to limitations imposed by the tax matters agreement, in order to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and product development, or to make acquisitions and other investments, which may dilute your ownership interest. The terms of our spin-off from Temple-Inland, anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as Delaware law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. The terms of our spin off from Temple-Inland could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. An acquisition or issuance of our common stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, which could cause the spin off to be taxable to Temple-Inland. Under the tax matters agreement we have entered into with Temple-Inland and Guaranty, we would be required to indemnify Temple-Inland and Guaranty for the resulting tax in connection with such an acquisition or issuance and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion, or other rights, voting powers, and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also provide for a classified board structure. Our bylaws provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders’ meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. Also, under Delaware law, business combinations, including issuances of equity securities, between us and any person who beneficially owns 15 percent or more of our common stock or an affiliate of such person, are prohibited for a three-year period unless exempted by the statute. After this three-year period, a combination of this type must be approved by a super-majority stockholder vote, unless specific conditions are met or the business combination is exempted by our board of directors. In addition, we have entered into a stockholder rights agreement with a rights agent that provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 20 percent or more of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a significant discount. The stockholder rights agreement could have the effect of significantly diluting the percentage interest of a potential acquirer and make it more difficult to acquire a controlling interest in our common stock without the approval of our board of directors to redeem the rights or amend the stockholder rights agreement to permit the acquisition. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors in our common stock must rely upon subsequent sales after price appreciation as the sole method to realize a gain on an investment in our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including without limitation, our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our business, the terms of any credit agreements to which we may be a party at the time, legal requirements (including compliance with the IRS private letter ruling), industry practice, and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. To the extent we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable because a return on investment will only occur if and to the extent our stock price appreciates, which may never occur. In addition, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation as the only way to realize a return on their investment, and if the price of our stock does not appreciate, then there will be no return on investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not hold our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Additional Risks Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, the spin-off, or the trading price of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described above. Although we believe that the risks identified above are our material risks in each of these categories, our assessment is based on the information currently known to us. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we do not currently believe to be material, if they occur, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, the spin-off, or the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 