Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this annual report. We have separated the risk factors into two groups: (1) risks relating to our business, and (2) risks relating to ownership of our common stock. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors relating to our company. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. Risks Relating to Our Business Changes in interest rates affect our business and profitability. Changes in interest rates are not predictable or controllable. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and are affected by changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, changes in interest rates affect our net interest income as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. A significant change in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect our net interest margin because our interest-bearing assets and liabilities do not necessarily reprice at the same time or in the same amounts. In addition, periodic and lifetime caps may limit interest rate changes on our mortgage-backed securities and loans that pay interest at adjustable rates. 10 Table of Contents Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the demand for our loan, deposit, and other financial products. An increase in interest rates may reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through increased prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in interest rates will likely affect our net interest income and our overall results. Declining real estate values, particularly in California, may cause borrowers to default on loans and leave us unable to fully recover our loans. A large portion of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by fluctuations in interest rates, the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, acts of nature, and changes in national, regional and local economic conditions. When real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans is reduced. Values of certain types of real estate, particularly undeveloped land, single-family residential lots, and new home construction have declined recently in certain parts of the country. As a result, we increased our allowance for loan losses. We may be forced to further increase our allowances for loan losses and suffer additional loan losses if real estate values decline further, or we are not able to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral, or by completing development or construction. Approximately one-half of our single-family residential loans are secured by real estate in California. We would be adversely affected by a significant reduction in the value of real estate in California that serves as collateral for our loans. We may be forced to increase our allowance for loan losses and may suffer additional loan losses as a result of any such reduction in collateral values. The adverse impact from a reduction in real estate values in California may be greater for us than that suffered by other financial institutions with a more geographically diverse loan portfolio. Additionally, we have a significant investment in private issuer mortgage-backed securities. Deterioration in the value of single-family homes may cause borrowers to default on the mortgages underlying these securities. In the cash flow distribution from the underlying assets, our securities are senior to subordinate tranches. However, losses from the underlying loans could eliminate the subordinate tranches. In that case, our securities would begin to become impaired. If we were to conclude we would not fully recover all contractual amounts due on the securities, we would record charges to reduce the carrying amount of the securities, which would reduce our earnings and our regulatory capital. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our profitability could decrease. Our loan customers may fail to repay their loans according to the terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. Such loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions, estimates, and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on a number of factors, including our own experience and our evaluation of current economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover incurred losses in our loan portfolio, and adjustments may be necessary that would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our loan portfolio lacks diversity, which exposes us to a greater risk of loss from isolated events and individual market adjustments. Commercial real estate, homebuilder construction, multifamily, commercial and business, and energy loans, which represent two-thirds of our loan portfolio, generally expose a lender to greater risk of loss than single-family mortgage loans because such loans involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or multiple borrowers in specific industries. The repayment of commercial and business loans often depends on the successful operations and income streams of the borrowers and for commercial real estate loans, repayment is also dependent on the completion and successful lease up, sale or refinancing of the property. Although the 11 Table of Contents majority of our energy loans are collateralized by oil and gas reserves, significant changes in energy prices or unsuccessful hedge programs by our borrowers could affect collateral values. Many of our commercial real estate or multifamily borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan, credit relationship, or geographic market can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one single-family mortgage loan. We have not acquired a significant amount of mortgage loans from our correspondent mortgage warehouse borrowers since we commenced this activity in 2007, and have experienced decreases in our mortgage-backed securities investments; if this continues, our earning assets and interest income could decrease. We have developed the capability to acquire mortgage loans from correspondent mortgage warehouse borrowers. The correspondent mortgage business is very competitive, and the current market environment is not generally conducive to significant production of non-agency adjustable-rate mortgages, which we generally hold. Our single-family loan portfolio will decline in size if market conditions continue to inhibit our ability to acquire loans from our correspondent lending activities. Additionally, if we choose not to acquire additional mortgage-backed securities, our investment portfolio will decrease. The resulting decreases in total loans or securities would result in lower net interest income. Current market conditions may limit our ability to raise regulatory capital. We may desire to raise funds by issuing financial instruments, such as additional subordinated notes payable to trust, as a source for our regulatory capital at Guaranty Bank. We may also desire to seek capital infusions in the form of debt or equity investments, as market and economic conditions may require. Current market conditions are unfavorable for the issuance of such instruments. We may be unable to raise additional funds, may find the costs associated with such issuances are too high, or may find the dilutive effect of such capital infusions may be significant to current holders of our securities. This could limit our ability to grow earning assets, or make growth less profitable. Recent volatility in the credit markets could limit our ability to grow our earning assets and could increase our credit losses. Credit markets have recently experienced difficult conditions and volatility, including the well-publicized concerns in the sub-prime mortgage market as well as related financings. Market uncertainty increased dramatically and expanded into other markets, including leveraged finance, and other segments of mortgage finance. These conditions resulted in less liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency. While it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and which markets, products or other segments of our loan and securities portfolio will ultimately be affected, these factors could adversely affect our ability to grow our earning assets and could increase our credit losses. As a savings bank pursuant to the Home Owners’ Loan Act, or HOLA, Guaranty Bank is required to maintain a certain percentage of its total assets in HOLA-qualifying loans and investments, which limits our asset mix and could limit our ability to increase the yield on our earning assets. A savings bank or thrift differs from a commercial bank in that it is required to maintain 65% of its total assets in HOLA-qualifying loans and investments, such as loans for the purchase, refinance, construction, improvement, or repair of residential real estate. To maintain our thrift charter we have to pass the Qualified Thrift Lender test, or QTL test. The QTL test limits the extent to which we can grow our commercial loan portfolio. Accordingly, we may be limited in our ability to change our asset mix and increase the yield on our earning assets by growing our commercial loan portfolio. In addition, if we continue to grow our commercial loan portfolio and our single-family loan portfolio declines, it is possible that in order to maintain our QTL status, we could be forced to buy mortgage-backed securities or other qualifying assets at times when the terms might not be attractive. Alternatively, we could find it necessary to pursue different structures, including changing Guaranty Bank’s thrift charter to a commercial bank charter. 12 Table of Contents Our business strategy of shifting our asset mix to reduce the residential mortgage loan portfolio and increase commercial and consumer loans exposes us to greater credit risk. Our asset mix has shifted, resulting in reductions in our residential mortgage loan portfolio and increases in our commercial portfolio. Additionally, we have plans to increase our consumer loan portfolio. Commercial and consumer lending typically results in higher yields than traditional residential mortgage lending. However, it also typically entails more credit risk. Generally speaking, the losses on commercial and consumer portfolios are more volatile and less predictable than residential mortgage lending, and consequently, the credit risk associated with such portfolios is higher. The business segments in which we operate are highly competitive and competitive conditions may negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability. Our operations are in highly competitive markets and a number of entities with which we compete are substantially larger and have greater resources. We compete with commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banks, other lenders, and insurance agencies, many of which are larger and have greater resources. Any improvement in the cost structure or service of our competitors will increase the competition we face. Many competitors offer similar products and use similar distribution channels. The substantial expansion of banks’ and insurance companies’ distribution capacities and product features in recent years has intensified pressure on margins and production levels and has increased the level of competition in many of our business lines. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. We are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by federal banking and state insurance authorities. The regulations enforced by these authorities are intended to protect customers and federal deposit insurance funds, not creditors, stockholders, or other security holders. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies are continuously changing, and any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a negative effect on our operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by federal savings banks and their holding companies (including the power to appoint a conservator or receiver for such banks) or to require changes in various aspects of their operations at any time, including restrictions on the payment of dividends to the parent company. Any exercise of such regulatory discretion could have a negative effect on our financial condition or the results of our operations. We may not be able to pay dividends if we are not able to receive dividends from Guaranty Bank. Cash dividends from Guaranty Bank would be the principal source of funds for paying cash dividends on our common stock. Unless we receive dividends from Guaranty Bank, we may not be able to pay dividends. Guaranty Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. Additionally, we may choose for Guaranty Bank to retain its earnings in order to meet regulatory capital requirements. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security that could expose us to liability or loss. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, insurance, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of any such failure, interruption or security breach, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from being a stand-alone public company. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that we expect as a stand-alone public company, or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. There can be no assurance that analysts and investors will regard our corporate structure or business model as appropriate or competitive. Additionally, we will incur costs in excess of the amounts allocated to us by Temple-Inland, such as information technology costs, director and officer liability insurance costs, director fees, and corporate administrative costs. We have very little operating history as an independent, publicly-traded company upon which you can evaluate our performance and, accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any newly independent company encounters. We have very limited experience operating as an independent, publicly-traded company and performing various public company administrative functions, including human resources, tax administration, registrant filing responsibilities (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), investor relations, information technology and telecommunications services, as well as the accounting for some items such as equity compensation and income taxes. We may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent, publicly-traded company, and we may experience increased costs as an independent publicly traded company. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stages of independent business operations, particularly companies such as ours in highly competitive markets. Our agreements with Temple-Inland and Forestar may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The agreements that we have entered into related to our spin-off from Temple-Inland, including the separation and distribution agreement, employee matters agreement, tax matters agreement and transition services agreement, were prepared in the context of our spin-off from Temple-Inland while we were still part of Temple-Inland and, accordingly, may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. In many cases, these agreements extend into future periods, and relate to, among other things, future services provided by us to Temple-Inland and purchased by us from Temple-Inland, contractual rights, indemnifications and other obligations between Temple-Inland, Forestar and us. Our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our results as a separate company and, therefore, may not be reliable as an indicator of our future financial results. Our historical financial information has been created using our historical results of operations and historical bases of assets and liabilities as part of Temple-Inland. This historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been if we had been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. It is also not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. Our historical financial information does not reflect changes that may occur in our cost structure, financing and operations as a result of the spin-off. These changes might include increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and purchasing power. If the spin-off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Temple-Inland received a private letter ruling from the IRS that the spin-off, if completed as described in the ruling request, qualified for tax-free treatment under applicable sections of the IRS Code. In addition, Temple-Inland received an opinion from tax counsel that the spin-off so qualified. The IRS ruling and the opinion rely on certain representations, assumptions, and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the IRS ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions, and undertakings were incorrect. Moreover, the IRS private letter ruling does not 14 Table of Contents address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion, the IRS could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions, or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the spin-off failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, Temple-Inland would be subject to tax as if it had sold our common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value at the date of the spin-off, and our initial public stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them. Under the tax matters agreement between Temple-Inland and us, we would generally be required to indemnify Temple-Inland against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (1) an issuance of our equity securities, a redemption of our equity securities, or our involvement in other acquisitions of our equity securities, (2) other actions or failures to act by us, or (3) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violating provisions of the tax matters agreement. Our indemnification obligations to Temple-Inland and its subsidiaries, officers, and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify Temple-Inland or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax matters agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. We must abide by certain restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off and may not be able to engage in desirable acquisitions and other strategic transactions following the spin-off. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off to Temple-Inland, under the tax matters agreement, for the two-year period following the distribution, we are prohibited, except in specified circumstances, from: • issuing equity securities for cash, • acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, or • engaging in mergers or asset transfers that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the distribution. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. The ownership by our chairman, our executive officers and some of our other directors of common stock, options or other equity awards of Temple-Inland or Forestar may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. Because of their former positions with Temple-Inland, our chairman, substantially all of our executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, and some of our non-employee directors, own shares of common stock of Temple-Inland, options to purchase shares of common stock of Temple-Inland or other Temple-Inland equity awards. Additionally, as a result of Temple-Inland’s distribution of shares of Forestar Real Estate Group, or Forestar, these officers and non-employee directors also own shares of common stock, options to purchase shares of common stock and other equity awards in Forestar. The individual holdings of shares of common stock, options to purchase shares of common stock or other equity awards of Temple-Inland and Forestar may be significant for some of these persons compared to their total assets. In light of our continuing relationships with Temple-Inland and Forestar, these equity interests may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could benefit or affect the equity holders of Temple-Inland or Forestar in ways that do not benefit or affect us in the same manner. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock has limited trading history. The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely as a result of our short history as a stand-alone company. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • a shift in our investor base because previous investors in Temple-Inland may not desire to continue their investments in a financial services related company; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, particularly in light of recent market conditions for real estate and mortgage-backed securities; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock after the distribution; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • overall market fluctuations; and • general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating or financial performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Substantial sales of our common stock may occur for several months following the spin-off, which could cause our stock price to decline. The shares of our common stock that Temple-Inland distributed to its stockholders generally may be sold at any time in the public market. Although we have no actual knowledge of any plan or intention on the part of any stockholder to sell our common stock, it is possible some of our stockholders, including possibly some of our largest stockholders, may sell our common stock received in the distribution for various reasons, including that our business profile or market capitalization as an independent, publicly-traded company does not fit their investment objectives. Moreover, index funds tied to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the Russell 1000 Index and other indices that held shares of Temple-Inland common stock will likely be required to sell the shares of our common stock they receive in the distribution. Also, some employees of Temple-Inland and Forestar may be unwilling to hold our common stock received in the distribution in their 401(k) plan accounts. The sales of significant amounts of our common stock may result in the lowering of the market price of our common stock. Your percentage ownership in our common stock may be diluted in the future because of existing equity awards on our common stock, and future capital raising activities. Your percentage ownership in our common stock may be diluted in the future because of equity awards on our common stock to our directors and officers and directors and officers of Temple-Inland and Forestar as a result of conversion of Temple-Inland awards outstanding at the date of the spin-off. Additionally, we have an approved Stock Incentive Plan, which provides for the grant of equity-based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options, stock appreciation rights, phantom equity awards and other equity-based awards to our directors, officers and other employees. In the future, we may issue additional equity securities, subject to limitations imposed by the tax matters agreement, in order to fund working capital needs, regulatory capital requirements, capital expenditures and product development, or to make acquisitions and other investments, which may dilute your ownership interest. 16 Table of Contents The terms of our spin-off from Temple-Inland, anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as Delaware law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. The terms of our spin-off from Temple-Inland could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. An acquisition or issuance of our common stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the tax matters agreement we have entered into with Temple-Inland and Forestar, we would be required to indemnify Temple-Inland and Forestar for the resulting tax in connection with such an acquisition or issuance and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also provide for a classified board structure. Our bylaws provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. Also, under Delaware law, business combinations, including issuances of equity securities, between us and any person who beneficially owns 15% or more of our common stock or an affiliate of such person, are prohibited for a three-year period unless exempted by the statute. After this three-year period, a combination of this type must be approved by a super-majority stockholder vote, unless specific conditions are met or the business combination is exempted by our board of directors. In addition, we have entered into a stockholder rights agreement with a rights agent that provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders will be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a significant discount. The stockholder rights agreement could have the effect of significantly diluting the percentage interest of a potential acquirer and make it more difficult to acquire a controlling interest in our common stock without the approval of our board of directors to redeem the rights or amend the stockholder rights agreement to permit the acquisition. Additional Risks Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, the spin-off, or the trading price of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described above. Although we believe that the risks identified above are our material risks in each of these categories, our assessment is based on the information currently known to us. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we do not currently believe to be material, if they occur, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 