Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related To Our Business The industry in which we have chosen to concentrate our sales efforts is fast moving and our customers may not be successful in growing in pace with the industry. We have chosen to concentrate our business efforts and resources in the fast-moving mobile phone business, where the life cycles of new products can be relatively short, and our available capital limits the number of new customers we can handle at any given time. We face the risk of our customers’ growth not keeping pace with this dynamic market, whether as a result of manufacturing products for which there is lesser demand, lack of capitalization or otherwise. In addition, given our limited resources to evaluate new customers, if we ultimately select new customers who are less successful, it will provide a smaller return on our efforts than if we select more successful customers. Despite our requirement of non-cancelable purchase orders from our customers and our efforts to investigate the credit histories of our customers, there is no guarantee that all our customers will be able to pay for all of the goods they order. Our continued expansion into mobile phone sales will depend on the continued growth of the mobile communications industry, and if the mobile communications industry does not grow as we expect, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected. In the past two years we have made significant investments to enter into the business of making and selling private-label mobile communication devices, which we expect to account for the majority of our revenues in 2012. Sales of our mobile phone and tablet products depend on continued growth in mobile communications and continued growth in the private-label segment of the industry in the geographic markets we serve in terms of the number of existing mobile subscribers who upgrade or simply replace their existing mobile devices, the number of new subscribers and increased usage. As well, our sales and profitability are affected by the extent to which there is increasing demand for, and development of, value-added services, leading to opportunities for us to successfully market mobile devices that feature these services. These developments are outside of our control. Allegations of health risks from the electromagnetic fields generated by mobile devices, and lawsuits and publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could affect our operations negatively by leading consumers to reduce their use of mobile devices or by causing us to allocate monetary and personnel resources to these issues. There has been public speculation about possible health risks to individuals from exposure to electromagnetic fields from the use of mobile devices such as mobile phones, which we manufacture and sell in our ICM business and to which our ECSS business is dedicated. While a substantial amount of scientific research conducted to date by various independent research bodies has indicated that these radio signals, at levels within the limits prescribed by public health authority safety standards and recommendations, present no adverse effect to human health, we cannot be certain that future studies, irrespective of their scientific basis, will not suggest a link between electromagnetic fields and adverse health effects that would adversely affect our sales and share price. Research into these issues is ongoing by government agencies, international health organizations and other scientific bodies in order to develop a better scientific and public understanding of these issues. 16 Table of Contents Although we believe our products and solutions are designed to meet all relevant safety standards and recommendations globally, even a perceived risk of adverse health effects of mobile communications devices could adversely affect us through a reduction in sales of mobile devices or increased difficulty in obtaining sites for base stations, and could have a negative effect on our reputation and brand value as well as harm our share price. Our management and a certain significant shareholder owning more than 10% of our common stock collectively own a high percentage of our common stock. Collectively, our officers, directors and a certain significant shareholder (the sole shareholder outside of management to own 10% or more of our common stock) own or exercise voting and investment control over approximately 26% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, investors may be prevented from affecting matters involving the company, including: - the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; - any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations; - our acquisition or disposition of assets; and - our corporate financing activities. Furthermore, this concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. This significant concentration of share ownership may also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company that is controlled by a small number of stockholders. Changes in governmental regulations affecting the export of electronics from China may hurt our business. While we believe that our manufacturer customers sell approximately 90% of their products in the Chinese market, the sales of mobile phones in our ICM business unit to date have almost all been overseas and to the extent the Company or its manufacturer customers sell overseas, factors which adversely affect export of electronic products from China may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects, including regulatory restrictions, trade disputes, industry-specific quotas, copyright levies, tariffs, non-tariff barriers and taxes that may result in limiting exports from China. Our business is sensitive to general economic conditions. As the vast majority of our sales in our procurement-fulfillment business are to manufacturers and design houses in China which in turn causes the end products to be distributed to consumers in China. Our procurement-fulfillment business could be adversely affected if there were to be a slowdown in the consumer demand in China for products incorporating the components we sell or we process for our supplier customers. Our mobile phone sales, which have become an increasingly significant portion of our business, are primarily made outside of China to other countries in Asia such as Indonesia and India. Accordingly, our mobile phone business could be adversely affected if there were to be a slowdown in the consumer demand for mobile phones in those countries. Our business may also be negatively affected by rising labor and material costs in China and, to the extent the Company or its manufacturer customers sell overseas, by a downturn in general economic condition in importing countries and regions. 17 Table of Contents Negative perception or publicity of Chinese products may hurt our business. Any negative perception or publicity of Chinese electronic products may cause a decline in demand for Chinese electronic products and in turn negatively affect our sales and revenue outside China. SinoHub envisions a continued emphasis on growth that may impose a significant burden on its administrative and operational resources which if not effectively managed, could impair its growth. SinoHub’s strategy envisions a continued emphasis on growth that may impose a significant burden on its administrative and operational resources. The growth of SinoHub’s business will require significant investments of capital, expansion of facilities and management’s close attention. SinoHub’s ability to effectively manage its growth will require it to substantially expand the capabilities of its administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians and other personnel. If SinoHub is unable to successfully manage its growth, SinoHub may be unable to achieve its goals. In order to grow at the pace expected by management, we will require additional capital to support our long-term business plan. If we are unable to obtain additional capital in future years, we may be unable to proceed with our long-term business plan and we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations or further business expansion. We will require additional working capital to support our long-term business plan. A large proportion of the Company’s business is procurement-fulfillment which requires the Company to have available capital to purchase components for inventory prior to reselling those components to customers. In addition, our ICM business, which is currently a significant portion of our business and which we expect to generate the majority of our revenue in the future, will also require working capital to purchase components required to fill orders for products. Our ICM business also requires capital to build inventory and for equipment and facilities used to manufacture and/or assemble products. A lack of sufficient capital beyond cash on hand and funds available under the Company’s credit facilities can be expected to significantly impair the Company’s ability to take on new customers and the size of the orders the Company can take from existing customers. Our working capital requirements and the cash flow provided by future operating activities, if any, will vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the volume of business during the period and payment terms with our customers and suppliers. We may also underestimate our capital requirements and other expenditures or overestimate our future cash flows. In such event, additional capital, debt or other forms of financing may be required for our working capital. We may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or other sources, especially in light of the current economic environment. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations. As a result, our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position would be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents We may issue additional shares of our capital stock, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders. To raise funds, we may need to issue new equity securities which could result in additional dilution to our existing investors. Additional financings could also result in significant dilution to our earnings per share or the issuance of securities with rights superior to our current outstanding securities or containing covenants that would restrict our operations and strategy. In addition, we may grant registration rights to investors purchasing our equity securities in the future which could increase the number of shares available to the public or restrict our ability to use registration statements to sell our securities. We face risks associated with debt financing (including exposure to increases in interest rates and lacking sufficient funds to repay debt). Our total outstanding indebtedness for bank borrowings as of December 31, 2011 was $69 million. The interest rates on these bank loans are fixed on an annual basis. Our obligations under our existing loans have been mainly met through the cash flow from our operations and our financing activities. We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk of significant increase in interest rates as borrowings increase or are rolled over for additional periods, typically on an annual basis and the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payment of principal and interest. In the past, cash flow from operations had been sufficient to meet payment obligations and/or we have been able to roll over our borrowings. There is however no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Failure to pay loans or any portion thereof when due could result in the acceleration of any obligations due under the loans and hinder our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, to the extent any loans contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such loans are outstanding, or to the extent our existing leverage discourages other potential investors. The competitive pressures we face could have a material adverse affect on our business. The market for our products and services is very competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We compete with many other suppliers in our ICM business, with other distributors and in-house service teams in the electronic component sales aspect of our ECSS business and with other third-party logistics providers in the supply chain management aspect of our ECSS business. Our failure to maintain and enhance its competitive position could adversely affect its business and prospects. Furthermore, our efforts to compete in the marketplace could cause deterioration of gross profit margins and, thus, overall profitability. The sizes of our competitors vary across business segments, as do the resources we have allocated to the segments in which it does business. Therefore, some of the competitors may have a more extensive customer base than we have in all, or some, of our business segments or greater resources and funding to capture clients in such segments. Unexpected order cancellations by our customers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 19 Table of Contents Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, and we generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. We try to limit the risk of non-payment by providing that customer orders for mobile phones are backed by deposits or letters of credit and that procurement-fulfillment projects and purchase orders for component purchases are non-cancelable. However, we do provide our customers with payment terms on component sales that occur in connection with procurement-fulfillment projects and spot purchases. While we generally collect a deposit of 15-20% on each procurement-fulfillment project, deal only in standard components, and limit the size of each order, we cannot be certain that every invoice for a completed order will be paid on time and that collection issues will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. SinoHub generally does not have long-term contracts with its significant customers. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. In 2011, SinoHub had three customers, who accounted for 21%, 8% and 6% of our revenue, respectively. While we expect this concentration to go down as our business expands, if the concentration remains and we are not able to secure further business from these customers or are unable to replace the business provided by these customers, it may have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The consumer electronics industry is subject to significant fluctuations in the availability of raw materials and components. If we do not properly anticipate the need for critical raw materials and components, we may be unable to meet the demands of our customers and end-users, which could reduce our competitiveness, cause a decline in our market share and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If the availability of raw materials and components decreases, the cost of acquiring those raw materials and components ordinarily increases. If we fail to procure adequate supplies of raw materials and components in anticipation of our customers' orders or end-users’ demand, our gross margins may be negatively impacted due to higher prices that we are required to pay for raw materials and components in short supply. High growth product categories have experienced chronic shortages of raw materials and components during periods of exceptionally high demand. If we do not properly anticipate the need for critical raw materials and components, we may pay higher prices for the raw materials and components, and we may be unable to meet the demands of our customers and end-users, which could reduce our competitiveness, cause a decline in our market share and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Unanticipated disruptions in our operations or slowdowns by our suppliers or shipping companies could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products and service our customers which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationships with our customers. Our ability to provide high quality customer service, process and fulfill orders and manage inventory depends on:  the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our procurement and distribution functions; and  the timely and uninterrupted performance of third party suppliers, shipping companies, and dock workers. 20 Table of Contents Any material disruption or slowdown in the operation of our procurement and distribution functions, manufacturing facilities or management information systems, or comparable disruptions or slowdowns suffered by our principal manufacturers, suppliers and shippers could cause delays in our ability to receive, process and fulfill customer orders and may cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, goods to be returned or receipt of goods to be refused. As a result, our revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. The components which we sell in our ECSS business or incorporate in the products sold in our ICM business are designed or manufactured by third parties and if third-party manufacturers lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third-party manufacturers, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for the components that we sell in our ECSS business and incorporate in the products we sell in our ICM business. If third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we do not believe we have any warranty liability for the components we sell in our ECSS business, if the manufacturers do not stand by their warranties or other problems with such supply develops, it could affect our business. We also have third-party arrangements for the design or manufacture of certain products, parts and components. If the parties we engage with lack the capabilities or capacities required by our business, or if these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers’ expectations, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be adversely affected. Some of the products we sell may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the components or software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. These issues may be identified prior to the shipment of the products or after they have been shipped to our customers. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including: delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, customer-imposed penalties on us for failure to meet contractual requirements, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation. In some cases, if the quality issue affects the product’s safety or regulatory compliance, then such a “defective” product may need to be recalled. In the case of our ICM business, depending on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the field, we might have an obligation to recall a product, which could cause us to incur substantial recall costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss of future orders, and the damage to our goodwill. In addition, we may be required to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue that we receive from the contracts. Recalls involving regulatory agencies could also result in fines and additional costs. Finally, recalls could result in third-party litigation, including class action litigation by persons alleging common harm resulting from the purchase of the products. SinoHub faces risks relating to intellectual property rights. 21 Table of Contents Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers and/or our suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, (ii) if the intellectual property indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover damages and losses due to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) if we are required to provide broad intellectual property indemnities to our customers, or (iv) if our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect our proprietary rights. Because our products are comprised of complex technology, substantially all of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of components, we may become involved in or impacted by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our customers and suppliers. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop, license or purchase non-infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer or supplier are subject to a final injunction. SinoHub is dependent on our continued ability to hire and retain skilled technical and managerial personnel. SinoHub’s continued success depends in large part on its continued ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified management and highly-skilled employees, particularly managerial, technical, sales, and marketing personnel, technicians, and other critical personnel. Any failure to attract and retain the required highly-trained managerial and technical personnel who are integral to production and development and technical support teams may have a negative impact on the operation of SinoHub’s plants, which would have a negative impact on revenues. There can be no assurance that SinoHub will be able to attract and retain skilled persons and the loss of skilled technical personnel would adversely affect its business. SinoHub is dependent upon its key officers for management and direction and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect its operations and results. SinoHub is dependent upon its officers for implementation of its proposed expansion strategy and execution of its business plan. These key officers include Henry T. Cochran, our CEO, Lei Xia, our President, and De Hai Li, our chief financial officer. The loss of any of these officers could have a material adverse effect upon its results of operations and financial position and could delay or prevent the achievement of its business objectives. SinoHub does not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of its officers. Future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. 22 Table of Contents Selective acquisitions form part of our strategy to further expand our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional companies, products or technologies. Future acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new companies into ours would require significant attention from our management. Our company has little experience with integrating newly acquired businesses. Potential problems encountered by each organization during mergers and acquisitions would be unique, posing additional risks to the company. The diversion of our management's attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Future acquisitions would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees, customers and suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. We incur significant costs to ensure compliance with United States corporate governance and accounting requirements. We incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the Commission. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to cause us to continue to incur substantial legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain affordable director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud; as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reports, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that the measures we have undertaken to comply with Section 404 will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Furthermore, if we are able to rapidly grow our business, the internal controls that we will need will become more complex, and significantly more resources will be required to ensure our internal controls remain effective. Failure to implement required controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We determined that there was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2010 relating to the accounting for certain stock purchase warrants which resulted in the restatement of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 and each of the quarterly periods from March 31, 2010 through September 30, 2010 and, as a result that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2010. While the Company believes that it has taken appropriate steps to remediate the material weakness, we cannot be certain that such measures will be successful. If we or our auditors discover further material weaknesses in our internal controls, the disclosure of that fact, even if the weakness is quickly remedied, could diminish investors’ confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension of trading, ineligibility for listing on one of the national securities exchanges and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which could reduce our stock price. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Conducting Business in the People’s Republic of China SinoHub’s Chinese operations subject it to certain risks inherent in conducting business operations in China, including political instability and foreign government regulation, which could significantly impact its ability to operate in such countries and impact its results of operations. To date, SinoHub has conducted a majority of its business in China and all of its operations other than ICM sales and marketing are conducted in the PRC or Hong Kong. SinoHub’s Chinese operations are, and will be, subject to risks generally associated with conducting businesses in China and in other developing foreign countries, such as: - any general economic downturn in China which affects consumer demand for the components we process and sell; - changes in applicable laws and regulations - for example, Customs regulations in China are quite complicated and are subject to change; - challenges to, or failure of, title - should the Company purchase facilities, it is more difficult in China to perfect clear title than it is in the United States and this represents a potential risk; - changes in foreign economic and political conditions - to the extent SinoHub sells overseas and to the limited extent that the Company’s manufacturer customers sell overseas, economic downturns and political instability outside of China is bad for our business. Also, since China is an export driven economy, economic downturns overseas are bad for China generally and this will have some effects on our manufacturer customers which make products for the local Chinese market; - export and import restrictions - as noted above, Customs regulations change frequently and such changes could have negative effects on our business; - tariffs, Customs, duties and other trade barriers - VAT and Customs Duty make electronic components more expensive in China (roughly 85% are imported), which makes products such as mobile phones, components of which are core to the Company’s business, more expensive in China; - difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations - the number of qualified managers in China is much less than the need, therefore it is hard for the Company to hire highly qualified managers; and - difficulties in enforcing agreements - China’s legal system is not as fully developed as the legal system in the United States, which means there is more risk that the Company could have difficulty enforcing agreements. 24 Table of Contents To the extent that the Chinese government may in the future require local ownership of companies to perform certain activities, the Company’s ownership structure may not permit it to accomplish all of its business objectives in China. Foreign governments also may impose additional taxes and/or royalties on our business, which would adversely affect SinoHub’s profitability. Internal unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between a foreign government and SinoHub or other governments may adversely affect its operations. These developments may, at times, significantly affect SinoHub’s results of operations, and must be carefully considered by its management when evaluating the level of current and future activity in such countries. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every aspect of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. SinoHub SCM Shenzhen, Ltd. has certain favored customs statuses with Chinese authorities which provide it with competitive advantages. Should it lose such statuses or should the benefits of the statuses change it could materially adversely impact our operations. Over 70% of the electronic components that we sell are imported into China by SinoHub SCM Shenzhen, Ltd. (“SinoHub SCM SZ”), a PRC corporation organized by our wholly-owned subsidiary SinoHub Electronics Shenzhen, Ltd., also a PRC corporation (“SinoHub Electronics SZ”). In September 2008, SinoHub SCM SZ attained Client Coordinator Enterprise Coordinator status with the Customs authorities at the Huanggang border crossing with Hong Kong. As a Client Coordinator Enterprise, SinoHub SCM SZ is able to achieve expedited Customs clearance of its goods that it is importing into China and may defer the payment of Value Added Tax and Customs Duty for two weeks. In April 2009, SinoHub SCM SZ was approved as an AA Customs High Credit Enterprise by the General Administration of Customs of the People's Republic of China. AA Customs High Credit Enterprise status is the highest status level that may be attained by importers. Recognized in all of China’s customs ports, AA Customs High Credit Enterprises are given priority, expedited customs clearance, including exemption from customs examinations and processing by dedicated customs personnel. 25 Table of Contents The success of our current import operations in China is based in part upon SinoHub SCM SZ’s statuses as a Client Coordinator Enterprise and as an AA Customs High Credit Enterprise. If SinoHub SCM SZ were to lose either status for any reason, such loss of status could result in disruption of our business, diversion of management attention and the incurrence of substantial costs, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Among the reasons such statuses could be lost are failure to fully comply with applicable customs regulations. A future change in Chinese law, such as the elimination of Value Added Tax, that impacted the benefits of our Client Coordinator Enterprise or AA Customs High Credit Enterprise status by removing our competitive advantage of the deferral in the payment of the tax we receive from such Client Coordinator Enterprise status or the expedited processing permitted by our AA Customs High Credit Enterprise status, could have a similar material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe that our operations in China through and by SinoHub Electronics SZ and SinoHub SCM SZ are valid under current PRC laws and regulations. However, many PRC import/export laws and regulations are relatively new and as the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many PRC laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties. We cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, the preemption of local regulations by national laws, or the overruling of local government’s decisions by the superior, national government. If we are required to restructure our operations to comply with new PRC laws or regulations, there can be no assurance that SinoHub SCM SZ would be able to preserve its status as a Client Coordinator Enterprise. China’s economic policies could affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China other than sales of ICM products which are generally made outside of China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced a significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been irregular, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the government control over capital investments, changes in tax regulations, changes in interest rates, or availability of credit. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. 26 Table of Contents The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Chinese Renminbi (RMB) and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated, because the majority of our ECSS earnings and of our cash assets are denominated in RMB. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Although we have no current intention to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future, fluctuations in the exchange rate would also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has not longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, all of the components we sell to our Chinese customers are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, as our sales to international customers grow, we will be increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. We may be restricted from exchanging RMB to other currencies in a timely manner. At the present time the RMB is not a freely exchangeable currency. The Company receives the majority of its revenue in RMB, a portion of which may need to be exchanged to other currencies, primarily U.S. dollars, and remitted outside of the PRC. Effective from July 1, 1996, foreign currency “current account” transactions by foreign investment enterprises, including Sino-foreign joint ventures, are no longer subject to the approval of State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, but need only a ministerial review, according to the foreign exchange regulations. Current account items include international commercial transactions, which occur on a regular basis, such as those relating to trade and provision of services. Distributions to joint venture parties also are considered a current account transaction. Other non-current account items, known as capital account items, remain subject to SAFE approval. Under current regulations, the Company can obtain foreign currency in exchange for RMB from swap centers authorized by the government. The Company does not anticipate problems in obtaining foreign currency to satisfy its requirements; however, there is no assurance that foreign currency shortages or changes in currency exchange laws and regulations by the PRC government will not restrict the Company from exchanging RMB in a timely manner. If such shortages or changes in laws and regulations occur, the Company may accept RMB, which can be held or reinvested in other projects. 27 Table of Contents Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries' ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. Currently, SinoHub’s operating subsidiaries in China generate substantially all of the company’s consolidated revenues. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their US-based parent. To repatriate the cash generated to the US-based parent, these subsidiaries would need to declare a dividend or make some other type of payment to the US-based parent. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are required to set aside at least 10% of our annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP in a statutory general reserve fund until the amount in such fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Further, if our subsidiaries and affiliated Chinese entities in China incur debt on their own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the People's Republic of China. The People's Republic of China historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of employees who are qualified to assist us in application of such concepts and practices to work in the People's Republic of China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Because our assets and operations are located in China, you may have difficulty enforcing any civil liabilities against us under the securities and other laws of the United States or any state. SinoHub, Inc. is a holding company, and substantially all of its assets are located in the People’s Republic of China. In addition, some of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon these non-residents, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. There is uncertainty as to whether courts of the People’s Republic of China would enforce: - Judgments of United States courts obtained against us or these non-residents based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or 28 Table of Contents - In original actions brought in the Republic of China, liabilities against us or non-residents predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in the Republic of China also may be limited or otherwise affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to PRC laws and regulations including those applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, decided legal cases have little precedential value in the PRC. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since 1979 has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, PRC laws and regulations change frequently and the interpretation of laws and regulations is not always uniform and enforcement thereof can involve uncertainties. For instance, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we are entitled to by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting statutory and contractual terms, it may be difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative court proceedings and the level of law enforcement that we would receive in more developed legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the potential inability to enforce our contracts, could limit legal protections available to you and us and could affect our business and operations. In addition, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the industries in which we operate, including the promulgation of new laws. This may include changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the availability of law enforcement, including our ability to enforce our agreements with PRC government entities and other foreign investors. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Non-U.S. companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment either from personnel of companies to whom they may provide bribes or other inappropriate incentives, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business, or from government officials who might give our competitors priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. Although we inform our personnel and other agents that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem, in the PRC could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS, Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where the substantial portion of our sales occur, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our business is dependent upon its ability to continue to manufacture products. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of:  quarantines or closures of some of our manufacturing facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations,  the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and  a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. We face risks related to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China that may affect usage of public transportation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China. For example, in early 2008, parts of China suffered a wave of strong snow storms that severely impacted public transportation systems. In May 2008, Sichuan Province in China suffered a strong earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. The May 2008 Sichuan earthquake has had a material adverse effect on the general economic conditions in the areas affected by the earthquake. Any future natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China could cause a reduction in usage of or other severe disruptions to, public transportation systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. PRC labor laws restrict our ability to reduce our workforce in the PRC in the event of an economic downturn and may increase our labor costs. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. To clarify certain details in connection with the implementation of the Labor Contract Law, the State Council promulgated the Implementing Rules for the Labor Contract Law, or the Implementing Rules, on September 18, 2008 which came into effect immediately. The Labor Contract Law provides various rules regarding employment contracts that will likely have a substantial impact on employment practices in China. The Labor Contract Law imposes severe penalties on employers that fail to timely enter into employment contracts with employees. The employer is required to pay a double salary to the employee if it does not enter into a written contract with the employee within one month of the employment, and a non-fixed-term contract is assumed if a written contract is not executed after one year of the employment. Additionally, the Labor Contract Law sets a limit of two fixed-term contracts regardless of the length of each term, after which the contract must be renewed on a non-fixed-term basis should the parties agree to a further renewal unless otherwise required by the respective employee. This requirement curtails the common practice of continuously renewing short-term employment contracts. The Implementing Rules appear to further tighten this rule by suggesting that an employee has the right to demand a non-fixed-term contract upon the completion of the second fixed term regardless of whether the employer agrees to a contract renewal. A non-fixed-term contract does not have a termination date and it is generally difficult to terminate such a contract because termination must be based on limited statutory grounds. The employer can no longer supplement such statutory grounds through an agreement with the employee. In addition, the Labor Contract Law requires the payment of statutory severance upon the termination of an employment contract in most circumstances, including the expiration of a fixed-term employment contract. 30 Table of Contents Under the Labor Contract Law, employers can only impose a post-termination non-competition provision on employees who have access to their confidential information for a maximum period of two years. If an employer intends to maintain the enforceability of a post-termination non-competition provision, the employer has to pay the employee compensation on a monthly basis post-termination of the employment. Under the Labor Contract Law, a “mass layoff” is defined as termination of more than 20 employees or more than 10% of the workforce. The Labor Contract Law expands the circumstances under which a mass layoff can be conducted, such as when a company undertakes a restructuring pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, suffers serious difficulties in business operations, changes its line of business, performs significant technology improvements, changes operating methods, or where there has been a material change in the objective economic circumstances relied upon by the parties at the time of the conclusion of the employment contract, thereby making the performance of such employment contract impractical. The employer must follow specific procedures in conducting a mass layoff. There is little guidance on what penalties an employer will suffer if it fails to follow the procedural requirements in conducting the mass layoff. Finally, the Labor Contract Law requires that the employer discuss the company’s internal rules and regulations that directly affect the employees’ material interests (such as employees’ salary, work hours, leave, benefits, and training, etc.) with all employees or employee representative assemblies and consult with the trade union or employee representatives on such matters before making a final decision. All of our employees based exclusively within the PRC are covered by the new laws. As there has been little guidance and precedents as to how the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules shall be enforced by the relevant PRC authorities, there remains uncertainty as to their potential impact on our business and results of operations. The implementation of the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses and labor service expenses. If we want to maintain the enforceability of any of our employees’ post-termination non-competition provisions, the compensation and procedures required under the Labor Contract Law may add substantial costs and cause logistical burdens to us. Prior to the new law such compensation was often structured as part of the employee’s salary during employment, and was not an additional compensation cost. In the event that we decide to terminate employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules may also limit our ability to effect these changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In particular, our ability to adjust the size of our operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns such as the recent financial turmoil may be affected. In addition, during periods of economic decline when mass layoffs become more common, local regulations may tighten the procedures by, among other things, requiring the employer to obtain approval from the relevant local authority before conducting any mass layoff. Such regulations can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on our results of operations and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents Our failure to fully comply with PRC labor laws exposes us to potential liability. Companies operating in China must comply with a variety of labor laws, including certain social insurance, housing fund and other staff welfare-oriented payment obligations. While we believe we have complied with such obligations, there exist uncertainties to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of such obligations. If relevant governmental authorities determine that we have not complied fully with such obligations, we may be in violation of applicable PRC labor laws and we cannot assure you that PRC governmental authorities will not impose penalties on us for any failure to comply. In addition, in the event that any current or former employee files a complaint with relevant governmental authorities, we may be subject to making up such staff-welfare oriented obligations as well as paying administrative fines. Because our funds are held in banks which do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. A significant portion of our assets are in the form of cash deposited with banks in the PRC, and in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to our funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. Risks Related to Ownership of SinoHub Common Stock There can be no assurance that a liquid public market for our common stock will exist in the future. Although our common stock is listed on the NYSE Amex stock exchange, our average daily trading volume in the last three months of 2011 was about 50,600 shares and there may not be a highly liquid market in our common stock in the future. There can also be no assurance as to the strength of any market for our common stock or the prices at which holders may be able to sell their shares. It is likely that there will be significant volatility in the trading price. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies has experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional equity financing to continue our growth and our success in raising additional equity capital could be affected by such volatility. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by many factors and can be expected to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in our operating results and other factors. Our stock price will also be affected by the trading price of the stock of all US listed companies with operations in China, of all companies that went public through a reverse takeover and of our competitors, investor perceptions of SinoHub, interest rates, general economic conditions and those specific to our industry, developments with regard to SinoHub’s operations and activities, our future financial condition, and changes in our management. 32 Table of Contents If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock in the secondary market. While we do not believe that there is a current basis for delisting our common stock, if our common stock were removed from listing with the NYSE Amex, it may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a penny stock, a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. Investors in penny stocks should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends on any of our securities since inception and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on any of our securities in the foreseeable future. The ability of the Board of Directors of SinoHub to issue “blank check” preferred stock and any anti-takeover provisions we adopt may depress the value of our Common Stock. The authorized capital of SinoHub includes shares of “blank check” preferred stock. The SinoHub Board has the power to issue any or all of the authorized but unissued shares of its preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking stockholder approval. The authority of the SinoHub Board of Directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock and any future anti-takeover measures it may adopt, in certain circumstances delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of SinoHub not approved by its Board of Directors. As a result, SinoHub stockholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal and the market price of the Common Stock and the voting and other rights of its stockholders may also be affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 33 Table of Contents 