Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Real Estate Operations A continued decrease in demand for new housing in the markets where we operate could decrease our profitability. The residential development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, such as employment levels, availability of financing for home buyers, interest rates, consumer confidence and housing demand. Adverse changes in these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand for lots for new homes in these areas. The current market conditions include a general over-supply of housing, decreased sales volumes for both new and existing homes, and flat or declining home prices. There also has been significant tightening of mortgage credit standards, decreasing the availability of mortgage loans to acquire new and existing homes. A further decline in housing demand could negatively affect our real estate development activities, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, the market value of undeveloped land and lots held by us can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and real estate market conditions. If there are significant adverse changes in economic or real estate market conditions, we may have to hold land in inventory longer than planned. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or lower returns. Development of real estate entails a lengthy, uncertain, and costly entitlement process. Approval to develop real property entails an extensive entitlement process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local governments. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects must generally comply with local land development regulations and may need to comply with state and federal regulations. The process to comply with these regulations is usually lengthy and costly, may not result in the approvals we seek, and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities. Our real estate development operations are currently concentrated in the major markets of Texas, and a significant portion of our undeveloped land holdings are concentrated in Georgia. As a result, our financial results are dependent on the economic growth and strength of those areas. The economic growth and strength of Texas, where the majority of our real estate development activity is located, are important factors in sustaining demand for our real estate development activities. As a result, any adverse change to the economic growth and health of those areas could materially adversely affect our financial results. The future economic growth in certain portions of Georgia in particular may be adversely affected if its infrastructure, such as roads, utilities, and schools, are not improved to meet increased demand. There can be no assurance that these improvements will occur. Our real estate development operations are highly dependent upon national, regional, and local homebuilders, as well as other strategic partners, who may have interests that differ from ours and may take actions that adversely affect us. We are highly dependent upon our relationships with national, regional, and local homebuilders to purchase lots in our residential developments. If homebuilders do not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, our business will be adversely affected. Also, a national homebuilder could decide to delay purchases of lots in one of our developments due to adverse real estate conditions wholly unrelated to our areas of operations. We are also involved in strategic alliances or venture relationships as part of our overall strategy for particular developments or regions. These venture partners may bring development experience, industry expertise, financing capabilities, and local credibility or other competitive attributes. Strategic partners, however, may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are 20 Table of Contents influenced by factors unrelated to our business. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation or financial condition of a strategic partner deteriorates. A formal agreement with a venture partner may also involve special risks, such as: we may not have voting control over the venture; the venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments; the venture partner could experience financial difficulties; and actions by a venture partner may subject property owned by the venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the venture agreement or have other adverse consequences. Our customers may be unwilling or unable to meet lot takedown commitments due to liquidity limitations or slowing market conditions. We enter into contracts to sell lots to builders. Home mortgage credit standards have tightened substantially and many markets have excess housing inventory so fewer new houses are being constructed and sold. Some builders are experiencing liquidity shortfalls and may be unwilling or unable to close on previously committed lot purchases. As a result, we may sell fewer lots and may have lower sales revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our partners’ inability to fund their capital commitments and otherwise fulfill their operating and financial obligations related to a venture could have an adverse effect on the venture and us. When we enter into a venture, we may rely on our venture partner to fund its share of capital commitments to the venture and to otherwise fulfill its operating and financial obligations. Failure of a venture partner to timely satisfy its funding or other obligations to the venture could require us to elect whether to increase our financial or other operating support of the venture in order to preserve our investment, which may reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses, or to not fund such obligations, which may subject the venture and us to adverse consequences. Delays or failures by third parties to take expected actions could reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses on certain real estate development projects. We rely on governmental utility and special improvement districts to issue bonds as a revenue source for the districts to reimburse us for qualified expenses, such as road and utility infrastructure costs. Bonds must be supported by districts tax revenues, usually from ad valorem taxes. Slowing new home sales, decreasing real estate prices or difficult credit markets for bond sales can reduce or delay district bond sale revenues, causing such districts to delay reimbursement of our qualified expenses. Failure to receive timely reimbursement for qualified expenses could reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses on certain real estate development projects. We are unable to control the approval or timing of reimbursements or other payments from the special public improvement district (SPID) in which our Cibolo Canyons project is located. Delays or failure by the SPID to approve infrastructure costs for reimbursement or to issue bonds could negatively impact the timing of our future cash flows. The SPID in which our Cibolo Canyons project is located is an independent governmental entity not affiliated with us. The SPID has an elected governing board comprised of members living within the district, none of whom are affiliated with us. Reimbursement of our infrastructure costs, and timing of payment, is subject to approval and determination by the SPID. The SPID is also obligated to pay to us certain amounts generated from hotel occupancy revenues and other resort sales revenues collected as taxes by the SPID within the district. The amount of revenues collected by the SPID will be impacted by hotel occupancy and resort sales, each of which could be lower than projected. The timing of these payments will be impacted by decisions made by the SPID in regard to whether and when to issue bonds that would generate funds to support payments to us. Decisions by the SPID to delay approval of reimbursements or issuance of bonds could negatively impact the timing of our future cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Mineral Resources Operations We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. The properties in which we have an interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties. Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, operators determine when and where to drill wells and we have no influence over these decisions. New wells may not be productive or may not produce at a level to enable us to recover all or any portion of our capital investment where we have a non-operating working interest. Volatile oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Our cash flows and results of operations are dependent in part on oil and natural gas prices, which are volatile. Any substantial or extended decline in the price of oil and natural gas could have a negative impact on our business operations and future revenues. Moreover, oil and natural gas prices depend on factors we cannot control, such as: changes in foreign and domestic supply and demand for oil and natural gas; actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; weather; political conditions in other oil-producing countries, including the possibility of insurgency or war in such areas; prices of foreign exports; domestic and international drilling activity; price and availability of alternate fuel sources; the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major currencies; the level and effect of trading in commodity markets, the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures, and governmental regulations. The ability to sell and deliver oil and natural gas produced from wells on our mineral interests could be materially and adversely affected if adequate gathering, processing, compression and transportation services are not obtained. The sale of oil and natural gas produced from wells on our mineral interests depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities owned by third parties. These facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions, and may not be available to us in the future on terms we consider acceptable, if at all. Any significant change in market or other conditions affecting these facilities or the availability of these facilities, including due to our failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities on terms acceptable to us or at all, could materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Our reserves and production will decline from their current levels. The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are produced. Our reserves will decline as they are produced which could materially and adversely affect our future cash flow and results of operations. A portion of our oil and natural gas production may be subject to interruptions that could have a material and adverse effect on us. A portion of oil and natural gas production from our minerals may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including as a result of accidents, weather conditions, loss of gathering, processing, compression or transportation facility access or field labor issues, or intentionally as a result of market conditions such as oil and natural gas prices that we deem uneconomic. If a substantial amount of 22 Table of Contents production is interrupted, our cash flow and, in turn, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may acquire properties that are not as commercially productive as we initially believed. From time to time, we may seek to acquire oil and gas properties. Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor may they permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Even when problems with a property are identified, we may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements. Moreover, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil and gas reserves, actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties. Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates. Weather and climate may have a significant and adverse impact on us. Demand for natural gas is, to a significant degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts, among other things, the price we receive for the commodities produced from wells on our mineral interests and, in turn, our cash flow and results of operations. For example, relatively warm temperatures during a winter season generally result in relatively lower demand for natural gas (as less natural gas is used to heat residences and businesses) and, as a result, relatively lower prices for natural gas production. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be materially and adversely affected by unexpected liabilities. The exploration for, and production of, oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can damage or destroy wells or production facilities, result in injury or death, and damage property and the environment. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operations on our property in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable. In addition, we require third party operators to maintain customary and commercially practicable types and limits of insurance, but potential losses or liabilities may not be covered by such third party’s insurance which may subject us to liability as the mineral estate owner. The occurrence of any of these events and any costs or liabilities incurred as a result of such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex involving decisions and assumptions in evaluating the available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. Accordingly, these estimates are imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves might vary from those estimated. Any variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of proved developed reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Changes in environmental or other regulations for extraction of oil or natural gas could reduce our mineral resource revenues. An increasing amount of our mineral resources revenue is dependent on newer technologies for extraction of oil or natural gas, specifically hydraulic fracturing. Changes in environmental or other regulations governing 23 Table of Contents hydraulic fracturing could substantially increase the cost or risk associated with extracting oil or natural gas from our mineral interests, resulting in lower production from our minerals or reduced demand for leasing our minerals. Such changes could result in reduced mineral resources revenues. Additionally, the U.S. Federal government is currently considering regulations to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. It has been asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. Such regulations would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process and could lead to operational restrictions and delays and increased operating costs. The standardized measure of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated reserves. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. As required by SEC regulations, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect at the time of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our properties will be affected by numerous factors not subject to our control. The timing of production will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flow, which is required by the SEC, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. A significant portion of our Louisiana net mineral acres are subject to prescription under Louisiana law. A significant portion of our Louisiana net mineral acres were severed from the surface estate shortly before our spin-off. Under Louisiana law, any portions of the mineral estate that are not producing minerals upon the tenth anniversary of severance from the surface estate will revert back to the surface estate owner. Upon such a reversion, we will no longer own such portions of the mineral estate and will no longer have the right to lease, explore or produce from such portions of the mineral estate. Our water interests may require governmental permits, the consent of third parties and/or completion of significant transportation infrastructure prior to commercialization, all of which are dependent on the actions of others. Many jurisdictions require governmental permits to withdraw and transport water for commercial uses, the granting of which may be subject to discretionary determinations by such jurisdictions regarding necessity. In addition, we do not own the executory rights related to our non-participating royalty interest, and as a result, third-party consent from the executor rights owner(s) would be required prior to production. The process to obtain permits can be lengthy, and governmental jurisdictions or third parties from whom we seek permits or consent may not provide the approvals we seek. We may be unable to secure a buyer at commercially economic prices for water that we have a right to extract and transport, and transportation infrastructure across property not owned or controlled by us is required for transport of water prior to commercial use. Such infrastructure can require significant capital and may also require the consent of third parties. We may not have cost effective means to transport water from property we own, lease or manage to buyers. As a result, we may lose some or all of our investment in water assets, or our returns may be diminished. General Risks Related to our Operations Both our real estate and mineral resources businesses are cyclical in nature. The operating results of our business segments reflect the general cyclical pattern of each segment. While the cycles of each industry do not necessarily coincide, demand and prices in each may drop substantially in 24 Table of Contents an economic downturn. Real estate development of residential lots is further influenced by new home construction activity. Mineral resources may be further influenced by national and international commodity prices, principally for oil and natural gas. Cyclical downturns may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The real estate and mineral resource industries are highly competitive and a number of entities with which we compete are larger and have greater resources, and competitive conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. The real estate and mineral resource industries in which we operate are highly competitive and are affected to varying degrees by supply and demand factors and economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, new housing starts, home repair and remodeling activities, credit availability, housing affordability and federal energy policies. No single company is dominant in any of our industries. The competitive conditions in the real estate industry may result in difficulties acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices, lower sales volumes and prices, increased development costs, and delays in construction. We compete with numerous regional and local developers for the acquisition, entitlement, and development of land suitable for development. We also compete with some of our national and regional home builder customers who develop real estate for their own use in homebuilding operations, many of which are larger and have greater resources, including greater marketing and technology budgets. Any improvement in the cost structure or service of our competitors will increase the competition we face. Our business and results of operations may be negatively affected by the existence of these conditions. Our activities are subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. Compliance with these provisions may result in delays, may cause us to invest substantial funds to ensure compliance with applicable environmental regulations and can prohibit or severely restrict timber harvesting, real estate development or mineral production activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. Significant reductions in cash flow from slowing real estate, mineral resources or fiber resources market conditions could lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility. We must comply with various covenants contained in our senior credit facility, and any other future debt arrangements. Significant reductions in cash flow from slowing real estate, mineral resources or fiber resources market conditions could lead to higher levels of indebtedness, limiting our financial and operating flexibility, and ultimately limiting our ability to comply with our debt covenants. If we fail to comply with the terms of any of our debt covenants, our lenders will have the right to accelerate the maturity of that debt and foreclose upon the collateral securing that debt. Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Debt within some of our ventures may not be renewed or may be difficult or more expensive to replace. Some of our ventures have debt, a substantial portion of which is non-recourse to us. Many lenders have substantially curtailed or ceased making real estate acquisition and development loans. When debt within our ventures matures, some of our ventures may be unable to renew existing loans or secure replacement financing, or replacement financing may be more expensive. If our ventures are unable to renew existing loans or secure replacement financing, we may be required to contribute additional equity to our ventures which could increase our risk or increase our borrowings under our senior credit facility, or both. If our ventures secure replacement financing that is more expensive, our profits may be reduced. 25 Table of Contents If the spin-off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Temple-Inland has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment under applicable sections of the Code. In addition, Temple-Inland has received an opinion from tax counsel that the spin-off so qualifies. The IRS ruling and the opinion rely on certain representations, assumptions, and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the IRS ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions, and undertakings were incorrect. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion, the IRS could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions, or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, under a tax matters agreement between Temple-Inland and us, we may be required to indemnify Temple-Inland against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. If we are required to indemnify Temple-Inland or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax matters agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 