RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors in addition to the other information set forth in this Form 20-F. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or the value of our unitholders’ units. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of our unitholders’ units would likely suffer. Risks Relating to Us and Our Partnership Our partnership is a recently formed partnership with limited separate operating history and the historical financial information included herein for periods prior to November 27, 2007 does not reflect the financial condition or operating results we would have achieved during the periods presented, and therefore may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. 5 Table of Contents Our partnership was formed on May 21, 2007 and commenced its activities on November 27, 2007. Our limited operating history will make it difficult to assess our ability to operate profitably and make distributions to unitholders. Although most of our current operations have been under Brookfield’s control prior to the formation of our partnership, their combined results have only recently been reported on a stand-alone basis and the historical financial statements included in this Form 20-F cover periods during which some of our current operations were not under Brookfield’s control or management and, therefore, may not be indicative of our future financial condition or operating results. Moreover, historical results for all of our current operations will not be reported for any full fiscal period prior to the second quarter of 2008. You should carefully consider the basis on which the historical financial information included herein was prepared and presented. Our partnership’s and Brookfield Infrastructure’s financial statements may not present our partnership’s financial results in the most meaningful manner. Our partnership’s sole material asset is its 60% limited partnership interest in Brookfield Infrastructure, which our partnership accounts for using equity accounting because our partnership does not control Brookfield Infrastructure; the general partner of which is controlled by Brookfield. Furthermore, as most of our current operations are accounted for using equity or cost accounting, Brookfield Infrastructure’s financial statements do not include a detailed breakdown of the components of net income, cash flows or unitholders’ equity for most of our current operations. The only operations that are currently consolidated into Brookfield Infrastructure’s financial statements are our Ontario transmission operations. Although we provide certain income statement and balance sheet line items for our current operations on a segmented basis in a note to Brookfield Infrastructure’s financial statements, such information does not include the level of detail and note discussion that would be provided if such operations were consolidated into our partnership’s and Brookfield Infrastructure’s financial statements. While separate audited financial statements for most of our current operations are included in this Form 20-F, our obligation to provide similar disclosure in the future will depend on the significance of each of the current operations at each year end relative to our overall assets and income. Accordingly, we may not continue to provide separate audited financial statements for each or any of our operations on an ongoing basis. In addition, we do not expect to be able to provide investors with audited financial statements containing meaningful year-to-year comparisons of financial performance for several years because our partnership’s results only reflect results for our current operations from and after the date we or, in some cases, Brookfield acquired them. Our assets are or may become highly leveraged and we may incur indebtedness in addition to asset-level indebtedness under our new credit facility, which contains certain restrictive covenants, or otherwise. Our operating entities have a significant degree of leverage on their assets, including acquisition-related leverage, which is not reflected in our partnership’s historical financial statements. In addition, we may increase the leverage on our assets. Highly leveraged assets are inherently more sensitive to declines in revenues, increases in expenses and interest rates and adverse economic, market and industry developments. A leveraged company’s income and net assets also tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than would otherwise be the case if money had not been borrowed. As a result, the risk of loss associated with a leveraged company is generally greater than for companies with comparatively less debt. In addition, the use of indebtedness in connection with an acquisition may give rise to negative tax consequences to certain investors. On a proportionate basis, the debt balance of all of our current operations was approximately $680 million as of December 31, 2007, with an annual debt service obligation of approximately $41 million. We may also incur indebtedness under one or more credit facilities, in addition to any asset-level indebtedness. On June 13, 2008, we entered into a $450 million senior secured credit facility which is available to fund acquisitions. For example, we may incur indebtedness under this credit facility in order to acquire an additional indirect interest in Longview in the event that Brookfield contributes its remaining interest in Longview to a timberlands focused partnership with institutional investors. We have made a commitment of up to $600 million to Brookfield to make such a purchase, subject to conditions, including a financing condition, described under Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions – Longview Purchase Agreement.” Although we intend to complete any acquisition, including this indirect acquisition of Longview, with an appropriate mix of debt and equity financing for our capital structure, we may finance all or a portion of this or any other acquisition and other investments with debt. The terms of our senior secured credit facility subjects us to financial and operating covenants which restrict our ability to engage in certain types of activities and make distributions in respect of equity. For example, the facility contains negative covenants that significantly restrict Brookfield Infrastructure including, among others, limitations on debt, liens, investments, mergers and operating activities, and restrictions from making any distributions on its equity unless immediately prior to, and after giving pro forma effect to, such distribution, no default has occurred and is continuing and Brookfield Infrastructure meets a minimum interest coverage ratio. If we fail to satisfy any debt service obligations under the facility or breach any financial or operating covenants thereunder, we will be prohibited from making any distributions until such breach is cured or the lenders could declare all advances outstanding under the senior secured credit facility to be immediately due and payable and could foreclose on our assets pledged as collateral. 6 Table of Contents We are subject to foreign currency risk and our risk management activities may adversely affect the performance of our operations. Some of our current operations are in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency. These operations pay distributions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar which we must convert to U.S. dollars prior to making distributions and certain of our operations have revenues denominated in currencies different than our expense structure, thus exposing us to currency risk. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could make it more expensive for our customers to purchase our services and consequently reduce the demand for our services. In addition, a significant depreciation in the value of such foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. When managing our exposure to such market risks, we may use forward contracts, options, swaps, caps, collars and floors or pursue other strategies or use other forms of derivative instruments. The success of any hedging or other derivative transactions that we enter into generally will depend on our ability to structure contracts that appropriately offset our risk position. As a result, while we may enter into such transactions in order to reduce our exposure to market risks, unanticipated market changes may result in poorer overall investment performance than if the transaction had not been executed. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a hedged position increases. The combined financial statements of Brookfield’s infrastructure division reflect net losses for the year ended December 31, 2006 and the period from January 1 to November 26, 2007. The infrastructure division operated at a net loss in 2006, primarily as a result of the accrual of a performance fee payable by our Canadian timber operations to Brookfield during such year relating to the increased appraised value of timber and HBU lands, which increased value is not reflected in our combined financial statements. Our partnership may incur significant losses in the future as a result of such type of expenses. The infrastructure division operated at a net loss in the period from January 1 to November 26, 2007 primarily as a result of weak results in our timber operations which were impacted by the downturn in the U.S. housing market and a strike at our Canadian operations that has since been resolved. In addition, as a publicly reporting issuer, our partnership expects to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that are not reflected in the combined financial statements of Brookfield’s infrastructure division. Performance fee payments and public company costs could hinder our partnership from achieving or maintaining profitability. We may incur additional losses in the future which may limit our ability to pay distributions and adversely affect the trading price of our units. Our partnership is not, and does not intend to become, regulated as an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act (and similar legislation in other jurisdictions) and if our partnership was deemed an “investment company” under the U.S. Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to operate as contemplated. The U.S. Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder (and similar legislation in other jurisdictions) provide certain protections to investors and impose certain restrictions on companies that are registered as investment companies. Among other things, such rules limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities and impose certain governance requirements. Our partnership has not been and does not intend to become regulated as an investment company and our partnership intends to conduct its activities so it will not be deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act (and similar legislation in other jurisdictions). In order to ensure that we are not deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to materially restrict or limit the scope of our operations or plans, we will be limited in the types of acquisitions that we may make and we may need to modify our organizational structure or dispose of assets of which we would not otherwise dispose. Moreover, if anything were to happen which would potentially cause our partnership to be deemed an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act, it would be impractical for us to operate as intended. Agreements and arrangements between and among us and Brookfield would be impaired, the type and amount of acquisitions that we would be able to make as a principal would be limited and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, we would be required to take extraordinary steps to address the situation, such as the amendment or termination of the Master Services Agreement, restructuring our partnership and the Holding Entities, amendment of our limited partnership agreement or the termination of our partnership, any of which could materially adversely affect the value of our units. In addition, if our partnership were deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act, it would be taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such treatment could materially adversely affect the value of our units. 7 Table of Contents Our partnership is a “foreign private issuer” under U.S. securities laws and as a result is subject to disclosure obligations different from requirements applicable to U.S. domestic issuers listed on the NYSE. Although our partnership is subject to the periodic reporting requirement of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the periodic disclosure required of foreign private issuers under the Exchange Act is different from periodic disclosure required of U.S. domestic issuers. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information about our partnership than is regularly published by or about other public limited partnerships in the United States and our partnership is exempt from certain other sections of the Exchange Act that U.S. domestic issuers would otherwise be subject to, including the requirement to provide our unitholders with information statements or proxy statements that comply with the Exchange Act. In addition, insiders and large unitholders of our partnership are not obligated to file reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and certain of the governance rules imposed by the NYSE are inapplicable to our partnership. Our partnership is an “SEC foreign issuer” under Canadian securities regulations and is exempt from certain requirements of Canadian securities laws. Although our partnership is a reporting issuer in Canada, it is an “SEC foreign issuer” and is exempt from certain Canadian securities laws relating to continuous disclosure obligations and proxy solicitation if our partnership complies with certain reporting requirements applicable in the United States, provided that the relevant documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, are filed in Canada and sent to our partnership’s securityholders in Canada to the extent and in the manner and within the time required by applicable U.S. requirements. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information in Canada about our partnership than would be available if we were a typical Canadian reporting issuer. Risks Relating to Our Operations and the Infrastructure Industry Risks Relating to Our Current Operations and Infrastructure Generally All of our operating entities are subject to general economic conditions and government regulation. All of our operating entities depend on the financial health of their customers who may be sensitive to the overall performance of the economy. Adverse local, regional or worldwide economic trends that affect each respective economy could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations could also be affected by changes in economic or other government policies or other political or economic developments in each country or region, as well as regulatory changes or administrative practices over which we have no control such as: the regulatory environment related to our business operations and concession agreements; interest rates; currency fluctuations; exchange controls and restrictions; inflation; liquidity of domestic financial and capital markets; tax policies; and other political, social and economic developments that may occur in or affect the countries in which our operating entities operate or the countries in which the customers of our operating entities operate or both. We may be exposed to uninsurable losses. The assets of infrastructure businesses are exposed to unplanned interruptions caused by significant catastrophic events such as floods, earthquakes, fires, major plant breakdowns, pipeline or electricity line ruptures or other disasters. Operational disruption, as well as supply disruption, could adversely affect the cash flows available from these assets. In addition, the cost of repairing or replacing damaged assets could be considerable. Repeated or prolonged interruption may result in a permanent loss of customers, substantial litigation or penalties or regulatory or contractual non-compliance. Moreover, any loss from such events may not be recoverable under relevant insurance policies. Given the nature of the assets operated by our operating entities, we may be more exposed to risks in the insurance market that lead to limitations on coverage and/or increases in premium. For example, our timber operations are not insured against losses from fires and many components of our Chilean transmission operations are not insured against losses from earthquakes. Even if such insurance were available, the cost would be prohibitive. While not a risk borne directly by our partnership, the ability of the operating entities to obtain the required insurance coverage at a competitive price may have an impact on the returns generated by them and accordingly the returns received by our partnership. 8 Table of Contents The acquisition of our current operations may give rise to contingent liabilities and the integration of our current operations may not be successful. Most of our current operations were recently acquired from third parties and have only been operated by us and Brookfield for a short period of time. We are subject to any contingent liabilities that are attached to our current operations, such as claims for failure to comply with government regulations or other past activities. Accordingly, there is risk regarding any undisclosed or unknown liabilities or issues concerning the current operations. The representations, warranties and indemnities of Brookfield to us in connection with our acquisition of the current operations are limited and for the most part do not protect us against these liabilities or guarantee the value of the current operations. Although the sellers of such operations made various representations to Brookfield in connection with the acquisitions, certain of the indemnification obligations are limited in duration and amount and may have already expired. In addition, even if we could make a claim against the seller of the interest for the amount that is required to be contributed, there can be no assurance that the seller would be willing or able to satisfy any claim that may be brought or that any claim would be successful. We also may not successfully integrate the business and operations of our current operations or realize any of the anticipated benefits of their acquisition and accordingly our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Performance of our operating entities may be harmed by future labor disruptions and economically unfavorable collective bargaining agreements. Several of our current operations have workforces that are unionized and, as a result, they are required to negotiate the wages, benefits and other terms with many of their employees collectively. If an operating entity were unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with any of its unions as existing agreements expire, it could experience a significant disruption of its operations, higher ongoing labor costs and restrictions of its ability to maximize the efficiency of its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on its operations and financial results. Our operating entities may be exposed to higher levels of regulation than in other sectors and breaches of such regulations could expose our operating entities to claims for financial compensation and adverse regulatory consequences. In many instances, ownership and operation of infrastructure assets involves an ongoing commitment to a governmental agency. The nature of these commitments exposes the owners of infrastructure assets to a higher level of regulatory control than typically imposed on other businesses. For example, our timber operations are subject to provincial, state and federal government regulations relating to forestry practices and the export of logs and our electricity transmission operations are subject to government regulation of their rates and revenues. The risk that a governmental agency will repeal, amend, enact or promulgate a new law or regulation or that a governmental authority will issue a new interpretation of the law or regulations, could affect our operating entities substantially. In addition, our operating entities are subject to laws and regulations relating to pollution and the protection of the environment. They are also subject to laws and regulations governing health and safety matters, protecting both the public and their employees. Any breach of these obligations, or even incidents relating to the environment or health and safety that do not amount to a breach, could adversely affect the results of our operating entities and their reputations and expose them to claims for financial compensation or adverse regulatory consequences. There is also the risk that our operating entities do not have, or might not obtain, permits necessary for their operations. Permits or special rulings may be required on taxation, financial and regulatory related issues. Even though most permits and licences are obtained before the commencement of operations, many of these licences and permits have to be renewed or maintained over the life of the business. We will operate in a highly competitive market for acquisition opportunities. Our acquisition strategy is dependent to a significant extent on the ability of Brookfield to identify acquisition opportunities that are suitable for us. We face competition for acquisitions primarily from investment funds, operating companies acting as strategic buyers, construction companies, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance companies. Many of these competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than are available to us. Some of these competitors may also have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of acquisitions. Due to the capital intensive nature of infrastructure acquisitions, in order to finance acquisitions we will need to compete for equity capital from institutional investors and other equity providers, including Brookfield, and our ability to consummate acquisitions will be dependent on such capital continuing to be available. Increases in interest rates could also make it more difficult to consummate acquisitions because our competitors may have a lower cost of capital which may enable them to bid higher prices for assets. In addition, because of our affiliation with Brookfield, there is a higher risk that when we participate with Brookfield and others in joint ventures, partnerships and consortiums on acquisitions we may become subject to anti-trust or competition laws that we would not be subject to if we were acting alone. These factors may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to acquisition opportunities. 9 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or that Brookfield will be able to identify and make acquisitions on our behalf that are consistent with our objectives or that generate attractive returns for our unitholders. We may lose acquisition opportunities in the future if we do not match prices, structures and terms offered by competitors, if we are unable to access sources of equity or obtain indebtedness at attractive rates or if we become subject to anti-trust or competition laws. Alternatively, we may experience decreased rates of return and increased risks of loss if we match prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Future acquisitions may subject us to additional risks. Future acquisitions will likely involve some or all of the following risks, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition: the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our current operations; potential disruption of our current operations; diversion of resources, including Brookfield’s time and attention; the difficulty of managing the growth of a larger organization; the risk of entering markets in which we have little experience; the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; and the risk of environmental or other liabilities associated with the acquired business. Brookfield has structured some of our current operations as joint ventures, partnerships and consortium arrangements, and we will do so in the future, which will reduce Brookfield’s and our control over our operations and may subject us to additional obligations. Brookfield has structured some of our current operations as joint ventures, partnerships and consortium arrangements. An integral part of our strategy is to participate with institutional investors in Brookfield sponsored or co-sponsored consortiums for single asset acquisitions and as a partner in or alongside Brookfield sponsored or co-sponsored partnerships that target acquisitions that suit our profile. These arrangements are driven by the magnitude of capital required to complete acquisitions of infrastructure assets and other industry-wide trends that we believe will continue. Such arrangements involve risks not present where a third party is not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals different from us and Brookfield. Joint ventures, partnerships and consortium investments generally provide for a reduced level of control over an acquired company because governance rights are shared with others. Accordingly, decisions relating to the underlying operations, including decisions relating to the management and operation and the timing and nature of any exit, are often made by a majority vote of the investors or by separate agreements that are reached with respect to individual decisions. In addition, such operations may be subject to the risk that the company may make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. Because we may not have the ability to exercise control over such operations, we may not be able to realize some or all of the benefits that we believe will be created from our and Brookfield’s involvement. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer as a result. In addition, because some of our current operations are structured as joint ventures, partnerships or consortium arrangements, the sale or transfer of interests in some of our operations are subject to rights of first refusal or first offer, tag along rights or drag along rights and some agreements provide for buy-sell or similar arrangements. For example, our Chilean transmission operations are subject to a shareholders’ agreement which allows for an en bloc sale of the assets without our consent and our Brazilian transmission investments are subject to put/call agreements with third parties. Such rights may be triggered at a time when we may not want them to be exercised and such rights may inhibit our ability to sell our interest in an entity within our desired time frame or on any other desired basis. Risks Relating to Our Electricity Transmission Operations Our electricity transmission operations may require substantial capital expenditures in the future. In some of the jurisdictions in which we have electricity transmission operations, such as Brazil and Chile, certain maintenance capital expenditures may not be covered by the regulatory framework. If our electricity transmission operations in these jurisdictions require significant capital expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will not be able to cover such costs through the regulatory framework. In addition, we may be exposed to disallowance risk in other jurisdictions to the extent that capital expenditures and costs are not fully recovered through the regulatory framework. 10 Table of Contents Our electricity transmission operations may engage in development projects which may expose us to various risks associated with construction. Our electricity transmission operations may engage in development projects. If such development projects enter the construction phase, we are likely to retain some risk that the project will not be completed within budget, within the agreed timeframe and to the agreed specifications. During the construction phase, the major risks include a delay in the projected completion of the project and a resultant delay in the commencement of cash flows, an increase in the capital needed to complete construction and the insolvency of the head contractor, a major subcontractor and/or key equipment supplier. Although frequently the main risks of any delay in completion of the construction or any “overrun” in the costs of construction will typically have been passed on by us contractually to a subcontractor, there is some risk that the anticipated returns of the relevant project may be adversely affected as a result. Unexpected increases in costs may also result in increased debt service costs and in funds being insufficient to complete construction. In addition, due to any of the aforementioned delays or cost overruns, regulatory changes or other external influences, we may decide to abandon construction or development of any given project resulting in a write-off of any cost recovery we may have received for costs to the point of abandonment. This would negatively impact our income and cash flow. Clients of our electricity transmission operations may default on their obligations under the relevant contractual arrangements. Some of our electricity transmission operations have customer contracts as well as concession agreements in place with public and private sector clients. On the public sector side this may include central government departments, local government bodies and quasi-government agencies. Since it cannot be assumed that a central government will in all cases assume liability for the obligation of quasi-government agencies or those central government departments will themselves not default on their obligations, the possibility of a default remains. Our electricity transmission operations also have contracts with private sector clients. There is an increased risk of default by private sector clients compared with public sector clients. For example, we have an agreement with a single customer which represented 72.9% of revenues of our Chilean transmission operations in 2007. As this agreement accounts for a majority of its cash flow, our Chilean transmission operations could be materially adversely affected by any material change in the assets, financial condition or results of operations of that customer. Our electricity transmission operations may be adversely affected by changes in tolls or regulated rates. Some of our electricity transmission operations are regulated with respect to revenues and they recover their investment in transmission assets through tolls or regulated rates which are charged to third parties (including generating companies). In general, our electricity transmission operations are entitled to earn revenue that represents a rate of return on the regulated investment value of assets and to collect provisions for operating, maintenance and administrative costs. If any of the respective regulators in the jurisdictions in which we operate decide to change the tolls or rates we are allowed to charge or the amounts of the provisions we are allowed to collect, we may not be able to earn a rate of return on our businesses that we had planned or we may not be able to recover our initial investment cost. The lands used in our electricity transmission operations may be subject to adverse claims. Although we believe that we have valid rights to all easements, licences and rights of way necessary for our electricity transmission operations, not all of our easements, licences and rights of way are registered against the lands to which they relate and may not bind subsequent owners. In addition, our rights may be adversely affected by rights of governments or aboriginal groups. Risks Relating to Our Timber Operations The financial performance of our timber operations may be affected by economic recessions or downturns. The vast majority of the products from our timber operations are sensitive to macro-economic conditions in North America and Japan and are thus susceptible to economic recessions or downturns in these markets. Decreases in the level of residential construction, repair and remodeling activity generally reduce demand for logs and wood products, resulting in lower revenues, profits and cash flows for lumber mills who are important customers to our timber operations. Depressed commodity prices in lumber, pulp or paper may also cause mill operators to temporarily or permanently shut down their mills if their product prices fall to a level where mill operation would be uneconomic. Moreover, these operators may be required to temporarily suspend operations at one or more of their mills to bring production in line with market demand or in response to market irregularities. Any of these circumstances could significantly reduce the prices that we realize for our timber. In addition to impacting our timber operations’ sales, cash flows and earnings, weakness in the market prices of timber products will also have an effect on our ability to attract additional capital, the cost of that capital and the value of our timberland assets. 11 Table of Contents A variety of factors may limit or prevent harvesting by our timber operations. Weather conditions, industry practices and federal, state and provincial laws and regulations associated with forestry practices, sale of logs and environmental matters, including wildlife and water resources, may limit or prevent harvesting, road building and other activities on the timberlands owned by our timber operations. In the case of restrictions arising from regulatory requirements, the size of the area subject to restriction will vary depending on the protected species at issue, the time of year and other factors. In addition, if regulations become more restrictive, the amount of the timberlands subject to harvest restrictions could increase. The timberlands owned by our timber operations may also suffer damage by fire, insect infestation, wind, disease, prolonged drought and other natural and man-made disasters. There can be no assurance that our timber operations will achieve harvest levels in the future necessary to maintain or increase revenues, earnings and cash flows. There can be no assurance that the forest management planning by our timber operations, including silviculture, will have the intended result of ensuring that their asset base appreciates over time. Our timber operations operate in a highly competitive industry, subject to price fluctuations. Timberland companies operate in a highly competitive business environment in which companies compete, to a large degree, on the basis of price and also on the basis of service and ability to provide a steady supply of products over the long-term. The prime competitors to our timber operations are governments, other large forestland owners and small private forestland owners. In addition, wood and paper products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including non-wood and engineered wood products and electronic media. The competitive position of our timber operations and the price realized for our products is also influenced by a number of other factors including: the ability to attract and maintain long-term customer relationships; the quality of our products; the health of the regional converting industry; the costs of timber production; the availability, quality and cost of labor; the cost of fuel; shipping and transportation costs; changes in global timber supply; technological advances that increase yield in other regions; and the price and availability of substitute wood and non-wood products. Our ability to harvest timber may be adversely affected by aboriginal claims. Aboriginal claims could adversely affect our ability to harvest timber in our Canadian (and to a lesser degree, U.S.) timber operations. Canadian courts have recognized that aboriginal peoples may possess rights at law in respect of land used or occupied by their ancestors where treaties have not been concluded to deal with these rights. In Canada, aboriginal groups have made claims in respect of land governed by Canadian authorities, which could affect a portion of our timber operations. Any settlements in respect of these claims could lower the volume of timber managed by our Canadian timber operations and could increase the cost to harvest timber on such lands. Our Canadian timber operations are subject to federal restrictions which may require them to decrease their planned export of logs. Currently, logs from most private timberlands in Canada are not subject to provincial export regulations, but are subject to federal export regulations. As a result, all export logs must be advertised for local consumption and may be exported only if there is a surplus of domestic supply as indicated by the absence of fair market value offers (based on current domestic prices) from domestic lumber mills. Accordingly, an increase in domestic demand could result in our Canadian timber operations being required to decrease their planned export of logs. The provincial government in British Columbia is currently reviewing its log export policy, and may recommend that the federal government impose a policy that may further restrict the export of logs from private lands in British Columbia. As export market pricing is generally at a premium to the domestic market pricing, any reduction in log exports could have an adverse effect on our Canadian timber operations. Risks Relating to our Relationship with Brookfield Brookfield exercises substantial influence over our partnership and we are highly dependent on the Manager. Brookfield is the sole shareholder of our Managing General Partner. As a result of its ownership of our Managing General Partner, Brookfield is able to control the appointment and removal of our Managing General Partner’s directors and, accordingly, exercise substantial influence over our partnership. In addition, our partnership holds its interest in the operating entities indirectly and will hold any future acquisitions indirectly through Brookfield Infrastructure, the general partner of which is controlled by Brookfield. As our partnership’s only substantial asset is the limited partnership interests that it holds in Brookfield Infrastructure, our partnership does not have a right to participate directly in the management or activities of Brookfield Infrastructure or the Holding Entities, including with respect to the making of decisions. 12 Table of Contents Our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure do not have any employees and depend on the management and administration services provided by the Manager. Brookfield personnel and support staff that provide services to us are not required to have as their primary responsibility the management and administration of our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure or to act exclusively for either of us. Any failure to effectively manage our current operations or to implement our strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Brookfield has no obligation to source acquisition opportunities for us and we may not have access to all infrastructure acquisitions that Brookfield identifies. Our ability to grow depends on Brookfield’s ability to identify and present us with acquisition opportunities. Brookfield has stated that we are its primary vehicle to own and operate certain infrastructure assets on a global basis. However, Brookfield has no obligation to source acquisition opportunities for us. In addition, Brookfield has not agreed to commit to us any minimum level of dedicated resources for the pursuit of infrastructure related acquisitions. There are a number of factors which could materially and adversely impact the extent to which suitable acquisition opportunities are made available from Brookfield, for example: • there is no accepted industry standard for what constitutes an infrastructure asset. Brookfield may consider certain assets that have both real-estate related characteristics and infrastructure related characteristics to be real estate and not infrastructure; • it is an integral part of Brookfield’s (and our) strategy to pursue the acquisition of infrastructure assets through consortium arrangements with institutional investors, strategic partners or financial sponsors and to form partnerships to pursue such acquisitions on a specialized or global basis. Although Brookfield has agreed with us that it will not enter any such arrangements that are suitable for us without giving us an opportunity to participate in them, there is no minimum level of participation to which we will be entitled; • the same professionals within Brookfield’s organization that are involved in acquisitions that are suitable for us are responsible for the consortiums and partnerships referred to above, as well as having other responsibilities within Brookfield’s broader asset management business. Limits on the availability of such individuals will likewise result in a limitation on the availability of acquisition opportunities for us; • Brookfield will only recommend acquisition opportunities that it believes are suitable for us. Our focus is on assets where we believe that our operations-oriented approach can be deployed to create value. Accordingly, opportunities where Brookfield cannot play an active role in influencing the underlying operating company or managing the underlying assets may not be suitable for us, even though they may be attractive from a purely financial perspective. Legal, regulatory, tax and other commercial considerations will likewise be an important consideration in determining whether an opportunity is suitable and will limit our ability to participate in these more passive investments and may limit our ability to have more than 50% of our assets concentrated in a single jurisdiction; and • in addition to structural limitations, the question of whether a particular acquisition is suitable is highly subjective and is dependent on a number of factors including our liquidity position at the time, the risk profile of the opportunity, its fit with the balance of our then current operations and other factors. If Brookfield determines that an opportunity is not suitable for us, it may still pursue such opportunity on its own behalf, or on behalf of a Brookfield sponsored partnership or consortium. In making these determinations, Brookfield may be influenced by factors that result in a mis-alignment or conflict of interest. See Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions – Conflicts of Interest and Fiduciary Duties.” The departure of some or all of Brookfield’s professionals could prevent us from achieving our objectives. We depend on the diligence, skill and business contacts of Brookfield’s professionals and the information and opportunities they generate during the normal course of their activities. Our future success will depend on the continued service of these individuals, who are not obligated to remain employed with Brookfield. Brookfield has experienced departures of key professionals in the past and may do so in the future, and we cannot predict the impact that any such departures will have on our ability to achieve our objectives. The departure of a significant number of Brookfield’s professionals for any reason, or the failure to appoint qualified or effective successors in the event of such departures, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our objectives. Our limited partnership agreement and our Master Services Agreement do not require Brookfield to maintain the employment of any of its professionals or to cause any particular professionals to provide services to us or on our behalf. 13 Table of Contents The control of our Managing General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our Managing General Partner may transfer its general partnership interest to a third party in a merger or consolidation or in a transfer of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, at any time, the shareholder of our Managing General Partner may sell or transfer all or part of its shares in our Managing General Partner without the approval of our unitholders. If a new owner were to acquire ownership of our Managing General Partner and to appoint new directors or officers of its own choosing, it would be able to exercise substantial influence over our partnership’s policies and procedures and exercise substantial influence over our management and the types of acquisitions that we make. Such changes could result in our partnership’s capital being used to make acquisitions in which Brookfield has no involvement or in making acquisitions that are substantially different from our targeted acquisitions. Additionally, our partnership cannot predict with any certainty the effect that any transfer in the ownership of our Managing General Partner would have on the trading price of our units or our partnership’s ability to raise capital or make investments in the future, because such matters would depend to a large extent on the identity of the new owner and the new owner’s intentions with regard to our partnership. As a result, the future of our partnership would be uncertain and our partnership’s financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Brookfield may increase its ownership of our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure relative to other unitholders. Brookfield holds approximately 40% of the issued and outstanding interests in Brookfield Infrastructure. The limited partnership interests held by Brookfield are redeemable for cash or exchangeable for our units in accordance with the Redemption-Exchange Mechanism, which could result in Brookfield eventually owning 39% of our issued and outstanding units. See Item 10.B “Memorandum and Articles of Association – Description of Brookfield Infrastructure’s Limited Partnership Agreement – Redemption-Exchange Mechanism.” Brookfield also acquired 0.2% of our units in connection with the satisfaction of Canadian federal and U.S. “backup” withholding tax requirements upon the spin-off. Brookfield may also acquire additional units of Brookfield Infrastructure pursuant to an equity commitment provided by Brookfield. See Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions – Equity Commitment and Other Financing.” Infrastructure GP LP may also reinvest incentive distributions in exchange for units of Brookfield Infrastructure. See Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions – Incentive Distributions.” In addition, Brookfield has advised our partnership that it may from time-to-time reinvest distributions it receives from Brookfield Infrastructure in Brookfield Infrastructure’s distribution reinvestment plan, with the result that Brookfield will receive additional units of Brookfield Infrastructure. Additional units of Brookfield Infrastructure acquired, directly or indirectly, by Brookfield are redeemable for cash or exchangeable for our units in accordance with the Redemption-Exchange Mechanism. See Item 10.B “Memorandum and Articles of Association – Description of Brookfield Infrastructure’s Limited Partnership Agreement – Redemption-Exchange Mechanism.” Brookfield may also purchase additional units of our partnership in the market. Any of these events may result in Brookfield increasing its ownership of our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure above 50%. Brookfield does not owe our unitholders any fiduciary duties under the Master Services Agreement or our other arrangements with Brookfield. The obligations of Brookfield under the Master Services Agreement and our other arrangements with them are contractual rather than fiduciary in nature. As a result, our Managing General Partner, which is an affiliate of Brookfield, in its capacity as our partnership’s general partner, has sole authority and discretion to enforce the terms of such agreements and to consent to any waiver, modification or amendment of their provisions. Our limited partnership agreement and Brookfield Infrastructure’s limited partnership agreement contain various provisions that modify the fiduciary duties that might otherwise be owed to our partnership and our unitholders, including when such conflicts of interest arise. These modifications may be important to our unitholders because they restrict the remedies available for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary duty and permit our Managing General Partner and the Infrastructure General Partner to take into account the interests of third parties, including Brookfield, when resolving conflicts of interest. See Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions — Conflicts of Interest and Fiduciary Duties.” It is possible that conflicts of interest may be resolved in a manner that is not in the best interests of our partnership or the best interests of our unitholders. Our organizational and ownership structure may create significant conflicts of interest that may be resolved in a manner that is not in the best interests of our partnership or the best interests of our unitholders. Our organizational and ownership structure involves a number of relationships that may give rise to conflicts of interest between our partnership and our unitholders, on the one hand, and Brookfield, on the other hand. In certain instances, the interests of Brookfield may differ from the interests of our partnership and our unitholders, including with respect to the types of acquisitions made, the timing and amount of distributions by our partnership, the reinvestment of returns generated by our operations, the use of leverage when making acquisitions and the appointment of outside advisors and service providers, including as a result of the reasons described under Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions.” 14 Table of Contents Our arrangements with Brookfield were negotiated in the context of an affiliated relationship and may contain terms that are less favorable than those which otherwise might have been obtained from unrelated parties. The terms of our arrangements with Brookfield were effectively determined by Brookfield in the context of the spin-off. While our Managing General Partner’s independent directors are aware of the terms of these arrangements and have approved the arrangements on our behalf, they did not negotiate the terms. These terms, including terms relating to compensation, contractual or fiduciary duties, conflicts of interest and Brookfield’s ability to engage in outside activities, including activities that compete with us, our activities and limitations on liability and indemnification, may be less favorable than otherwise might have resulted if the negotiations had involved unrelated parties. Under our limited partnership agreement, persons who acquire our units and their transferees will be deemed to have agreed that none of those arrangements constitutes a breach of any duty that may be owed to them under our limited partnership agreement or any duty stated or implied by law or equity. Our Managing General Partner may be unable or unwilling to terminate the Master Services Agreement. The Master Services Agreement provides that the Service Recipients may terminate the agreement only if the Manager defaults in the performance or observance of any material term, condition or covenant contained in the agreement in a manner that results in material harm to us and the default continues unremedied for a period of 30 days after written notice of the breach is given to the Manager; the Manager engages in any act of fraud, misappropriation of funds or embezzlement against any Service Recipient that results in material harm to us; the Manager is grossly negligent in the performance of its duties under the agreement and such negligence results in material harm to the Service Recipients; or upon the happening of certain events relating to the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Manager. Our Managing General Partner cannot terminate the agreement for any other reason, including if the Manager or Brookfield experiences a change of control, and there is no fixed term to the agreement. In addition, because our Managing General Partner is an affiliate of Brookfield, it may be unwilling to terminate the Master Services Agreement, even in the case of a default. If the Manager’s performance does not meet the expectations of investors, and our Managing General Partner is unable or unwilling to terminate the Master Services Agreement, the market price of our units could suffer. Furthermore, the termination of the Master Services Agreement would terminate our partnership’s rights under the Relationship Agreement and the licensing agreement. See Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions – Relationship Agreement” and Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions – Licensing Agreement.” The liability of the Manager is limited under our arrangements with it and we have agreed to indemnify the Manager against claims that it may face in connection with such arrangements, which may lead it to assume greater risks when making decisions relating to us than it otherwise would if acting solely for its own account. Under the Master Services Agreement, the Manager has not assumed any responsibility other than to provide or arrange for the provision of the services described in the Master Services Agreement in good faith and will not be responsible for any action that our Managing General Partner takes in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. In addition, under our limited partnership agreement, the liability of the Managing General Partner and its affiliates, including the Manager, is limited to the fullest extent permitted by law to conduct involving bad faith, fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, action that was known to have been unlawful. The liability of the Manager under the Master Services Agreement is similarly limited, except that the Manager is also liable for liabilities arising from gross negligence. In addition, our partnership has agreed to indemnify the Manager to the fullest extent permitted by law from and against any claims, liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses incurred by an indemnified person or threatened in connection with our operations, investments and activities or in respect of or arising from the Master Services Agreement or the services provided by the Manager, except to the extent that the claims, liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses are determined to have resulted from the conduct in respect of which such persons have liability as described above. These protections may result in the Manager tolerating greater risks when making decisions than otherwise would be the case, including when determining whether to use leverage in connection with acquisitions. The indemnification arrangements to which the Manager is a party may also give rise to legal claims for indemnification that are adverse to our partnership and our unitholders. Risks Relating to our Units Our unitholders do not have a right to vote on partnership matters or to take part in the management of our partnership. Under our limited partnership agreement, our unitholders are not entitled to vote on matters relating to our partnership, such as acquisitions, dispositions or financing, or to participate in the management or control of our partnership. In particular, our unitholders do not have the right to remove our Managing General Partner, to cause our Managing General Partner to withdraw from our partnership, to cause a new general partner to be admitted to our partnership, to appoint new directors to our Managing General Partner’s board of directors, to remove existing directors from our Managing General Partner’s board of directors or to prevent a change of control of our Managing General Partner. In addition, except as prescribed by applicable laws, our unitholders’ consent rights apply only with respect to certain amendments to our limited partnership agreement. As a result, unlike holders of common stock of a corporation, our unitholders are not able to influence the direction of our partnership, including its policies and procedures, or to cause a change in its management, even if they are unsatisfied with the performance of our partnership. Consequently, our unitholders may be deprived of an opportunity to receive a premium for their units in the future through a sale of our partnership and the trading price of our units may be adversely affected by the absence or a reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Taxation General Changes in tax law and practice may have a material adverse effect on our operations and, as a consequence, the value of our assets and the net amount of distributions payable to our unitholders. Our structure, including the structure of the Holding Entities and the operating entities, is based on prevailing taxation law and practice in the local jurisdictions in which we operate. Any change in tax legislation (including in relation to taxation rates) and practice in these jurisdictions could adversely affect such company or entity, as well as the net amount of distributions payable to our unitholders. Furthermore, the manner in which we seek to structure acquisitions is dependent on the tax legislation and practice applicable at that time in the relevant jurisdiction. This may mean that we find it difficult to carry out acquisitions in a particular territory or in certain asset classes in any such territory for a period of time. Taxes and other constraints that would be applicable to us in such jurisdictions may not be applicable to local institutions or other parties and such parties may therefore have a significantly lower effective cost of capital and a corresponding competitive advantage in pursuing such acquisitions. Our partnership’s ability to make distributions depends on us receiving sufficient cash distributions from our underlying operations and we cannot assure our unit holders that our partnership will be able to make cash distributions to them in amounts that are sufficient to fund their tax liabilities. We are subject to local taxes in each of the relevant territories and jurisdictions (such as Canada, the United States, Brazil and Chile) in which we have operations, including taxes on our income, profits or gains and withholding taxes. As a result, our partnership’s cash available for distribution is reduced by such taxes and the post-tax return to investors is similarly reduced by such taxes. We intend that future acquisitions be assessed on a case-by-case basis and, where possible and commercially viable, structured so as to minimize any adverse tax consequences for us as a result of making such acquisitions. Each of our unitholders will be required to include in their income its allocatable share of our partnership’s items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit (including, so long as it is treated as a partnership for tax purposes, our partnership’s allocatable share of those items of Brookfield Infrastructure) for each of our taxable years ending with or within such unitholder’s taxable year. See Item 10.E “Taxation.” With respect to each of our unitholders, the cash distributed to a unitholder may not be sufficient to fund the payment of the full amount of such unitholder’s tax liability in respect of its investment in our partnership because such unitholder’s tax liability is dependent on their particular tax situation and we will make simplifying tax assumptions in determining the amount of the distribution. In addition, the actual amount and timing of distributions will always be subject to the discretion of our Managing General Partner’s board of directors and we cannot assure our unitholders that our partnership will in fact make cash distributions as intended. See Item 8.A “Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information.” Even if our partnership is unable to distribute cash in an amount that is sufficient to fund our unitholders tax liabilities, each of our unitholders will still be required to pay income taxes on their share of our partnership’s taxable income. Our unitholders may be subject to taxes and tax filing obligations in jurisdictions in which they are not resident for tax purposes or are not otherwise subject to tax. Because of our unitholders’ holdings in our partnership, our unitholders may be subject to taxes and tax return filing obligations in jurisdictions other than the jurisdiction in which they are a resident for tax purposes or are not otherwise subject to tax. Although we will attempt, to the extent reasonably practicable, to structure our operations and investments so as to minimize income tax filing obligations by our unitholders in such jurisdictions, there may be circumstances in which we are unable to do so. Income or gains from our holdings may be subject to withholding or other taxes in jurisdictions outside our unitholders’ jurisdiction of residence for tax purposes or in which they are not otherwise subject to tax. If any of our unitholders wish to claim the benefit of an applicable income tax treaty, such unitholders may be required to submit information to our partnership and/or the tax authorities in such jurisdictions. Our unitholders may be exposed to transfer pricing risks. To the extent that our partnership, Brookfield Infrastructure, the Holding Entities or the operating entities enter into transactions or arrangements with parties with whom they do not deal at arm’s length, including Brookfield, the relevant tax authorities may seek to adjust the quantum or nature of the amounts received or paid by such entities if they consider that the terms and conditions of such transactions or arrangements differ from those that would have been made between persons dealing at arm’s length. This could result in more tax being paid by such entities and therefore the return to investors could be reduced. 16 Table of Contents Our Managing General Partner and the Infrastructure GP LP believe that the base management fee and any other amount that is paid to the Manager will be commensurate with the value of the services being provided by the Manager and are comparable to the fees or other amounts that would be agreed to in an arm’s length arrangement. The Managing General Partner and the Infrastructure GP LP therefore do not anticipate that the amounts of income (or loss) allocated to our unitholders will be adjusted. However, no assurance can be given in this regard. If the relevant tax authority were to assert that an adjustment should be made under the transfer pricing rules to an amount (most likely, an expense) that is relevant to the computation of the income of Brookfield Infrastructure or our partnership, such assertion could result in adjustments to amounts of income (or loss) allocated to our unitholders by our partnership for tax purposes. In addition, our unitholders may also be liable for transfer pricing penalties in respect of transfer pricing adjustments unless reasonable efforts were made to determine, and use, arm’s length transfer prices. Generally, reasonable efforts in this regard are only considered to be made if contemporaneous documentation has been prepared in respect of such transactions or arrangements that support the transfer pricing methodology. Our Managing General Partner and Infrastructure GP LP advise that satisfactory contemporaneous documentation for these purposes has been and will be prepared in respect of all transactions or arrangements with Brookfield, and in particular with respect to the Master Services Agreement. Accordingly, our Managing General Partner and the Infrastructure General Partner do not anticipate that the amounts of income (or loss) allocated to our unitholders for tax purposes will be required to be adjusted or that our unitholders, our partnership, or Brookfield Infrastructure will be subject to transfer pricing penalties described above. However, no assurance can be given in this regard. United States The Internal Revenue Service may disagree with the valuation of the spin-off dividend. Our U.S. unitholders received a dividend as a result of the spin-off equal to the fair market value of the units of our partnership received by them in the spin-off plus the amount of cash received in lieu of fractional units. We used the volume weighted average trading price of our units on the NYSE for the five trading days immediately following the spin-off to calculate the fair market value of our units at $20.5565. This valuation is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. The IRS may disagree with this valuation and this could result in increased tax liability to the unitholders. If either our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure were to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the value of our units may be adversely affected. The value of our units will depend in part on our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure being treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure have each made an election to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, in order for our partnership to be considered a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under present law, 90% or more of our partnership’s gross income for every taxable year must consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, and the partnership must not be required to register, if it were a U.S. corporation, as an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act and related rules. Although we intend to manage our affairs so that our partnership would not need to be registered as an investment company if it were a U.S. corporation and so that it will meet the 90% test described above in each taxable year, our partnership may not meet these requirements or current law may change so as to cause, in either event, our partnership to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If our partnership were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, (i) the deemed conversion to corporate status would generally result in recognition of gain (but not loss) to U.S. unitholders; (ii) our partnership would likely be subject to U.S. corporate income tax and branch profits tax with respect to income, if any, that is effectively connected to a U.S. trade or business; (iii) distributions to our U.S. unitholders would be taxable as dividends to the extent of our partnership’s earnings and profits; (iv) dividends, interest, and certain other passive income our partnership receives from U.S. entities would, in most instances, be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30% (although certain non-U.S. holders of our units nevertheless may be entitled to certain treaty benefits in respect of their allocable share of such income), and U.S. unitholders (other than certain U.S. corporate unitholders who own 10% or more of our units) would not be allowed a tax credit with respect to any such tax withheld; (v) the “portfolio interest” exemption would not apply to interest income of our partnership derived from entities bearing certain relationships to our partnership (although certain non-U.S. holders of our units nevertheless may be entitled to certain treaty benefits in respect of their allocable share of such income) and (vi) our partnership could be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” (as defined in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code), and such classification would have adverse tax consequences to U.S. unitholders with respect to distributions and gain recognized on the sale of our units. In addition to the foregoing consequences, if our partnership were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and, as of the time of conversion from partnership status to corporate status, the value of our partnership’s U.S. assets equaled or exceeded sixty percent of the value of our partnership’s total assets, some or all of the net income recognized by our partnership subsequent to such conversion would be subject to U.S. corporate income tax. It is not expected that our partnership’s U.S. assets will at any time equal or exceed such thresholds. If Brookfield Infrastructure were to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, consequences similar to those described above would apply. 17 Table of Contents Neither our partnership nor Brookfield Infrastructure has requested, and they do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on their tax status for U.S. federal income tax purposes or as to any other matter affecting us. A non-U.S. person who holds more than 5% of our units very likely will be subject to special rules under the Foreign Investment Real Property Tax Act of 1980, which may have a material adverse effect on the return to such person from an investment in our units. A non-U.S. person who holds more than 5% of our units very likely will be subject to special rules under the Foreign Investment Real Property Tax Act of 1980, or FIRPTA. For purposes of determining whether a non-U.S. person holds more than 5% of our units, special attribution rules apply. The application of the FIRPTA rules to a non-U.S. person who holds (or is deemed to hold) more than 5% of our units could have a material adverse effect on such non-U.S. person. Accordingly, our partnership does not believe that it is generally advisable for a non-U.S. person to own more than 5% of our units. If any of our unitholders is a non-U.S. person and owns or anticipates owning more than 5% of our units, such person should consult their tax advisors. See Item 10.E “Taxation – United States Tax Considerations – Consequences to Non-U.S. Holders of Our Units.” We may be subject to U.S. “backup” withholding tax or other U.S. withholding taxes if our unitholders fail to comply with U.S. tax reporting rules or if the IRS or other applicable state and local taxing authorities do not accept our withholding methodology, and such excess withholding tax cost will be an expense borne by our partnership, and, therefore, all of our unitholders on a pro rata basis. We may become subject to U.S. “backup” withholding tax at the applicable rate (currently 28%) or other U.S. withholding taxes (potentially as high as 30%) if our U.S. and non-U.S. unitholders fails to timely provide our partnership (or the clearing agent or other intermediary) with an IRS Form W-9 or IRS Form W-8, as the case may be, or if the withholding methodology we use is not accepted by the IRS or applicable state and local taxing authorities. See Item 10.E “Taxation — United States Tax Considerations — Administrative Matters — Backup and Other Administrative Withholding Issues.” Accordingly, it is important that each of our unitholders timely provides our partnership (or the clearing agent or other intermediary) with an IRS Form W-9 or IRS Form W-8, as applicable. To the extent that any unitholder fails to timely provide the applicable forms (or such form is not properly completed), or should the IRS or other applicable state and local taxing authorities not accept our withholding methodology, our partnership may treat such U.S. “backup” withholding taxes or other U.S. withholding taxes as an expense, which will be borne by all unitholders on a pro rata basis. As a result, our unitholders that fully comply with their U.S. tax reporting obligations may bear a share of such burden created by other unitholders that do not comply with the U.S. tax reporting rules. Tax-exempt entities face unique U.S. tax issues from owning our units that may result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to them. Our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure are not prohibited from incurring indebtedness, and at times either or both may do so. If any such indebtedness were used to acquire property by our partnership or by Brookfield Infrastructure, such property generally would constitute “debt-financed property,” and any income or gain realized on such property and allocated to a tax-exempt entity generally would constitute “unrelated business taxable income” to such tax-exempt entity. In addition, even if such indebtedness were not used either by our partnership or by Brookfield Infrastructure to acquire property but were instead used to fund distributions to our unitholders, if a tax-exempt U.S. unitholder used such proceeds to make an investment outside our partnership, the IRS could assert that such investment constitutes “debt-financed property” to such unitholder with the consequences noted above. A tax-exempt entity is subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular graduated rates on the net amount of its unrelated business taxable income. In addition, a tax-exempt entity is required to file a U.S. federal income tax return for any taxable year that the tax-exempt entity derives gross income characterized as unrelated business taxable income in excess of $1,000. The potential for having income characterized as unrelated business taxable income may make our units an unsuitable investment for a tax-exempt entity. There may be limitations on the deductibility of our partnership’s interest expense. For so long as our partnership is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, each of our unitholders that is a U.S. person (or otherwise taxable in the United States) generally will be taxed on their share of our partnership’s net taxable income. However, U.S. federal income tax law may limit the deductibility of such a unitholder’s share of our partnership’s interest expense. In addition, deductions for such a unitholder’s share of our partnership’s interest expense may be limited or disallowed for U.S. state and local tax purposes. Therefore, any such unitholders may be taxed on amounts in excess of such unitholder’s share of the net income of our partnership. This could adversely impact the value of our units if our partnership was to incur (either directly or indirectly) a significant amount of indebtedness. See Item 10.E “Taxation – United States Tax Considerations – Consequences to U.S. Holders – Holding of Our Units.” 18 Table of Contents Non-U.S. persons face unique U.S. tax issues from owning our units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Our partnership believes that it is not engaged in a U.S. trade or business for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and intends to use commercially reasonable efforts to structure its activities to avoid generating income treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, including effectively connected income attributable to the sale of a “United States Real Property Interest,” as defined in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly our partnership’s non-U.S. unitholders will generally not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on interest, dividends and gains derived from non-U.S. sources. It is possible, however, that the IRS could disagree or that the U.S. federal tax laws and Treasury regulations could change and our partnership could be deemed to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business, which would have a material adverse effect on non-U.S. unitholders. If, contrary to our partnership’s expectations, our partnership is considered to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business or realizes gain from the sale or other disposition of a United States Real Property Interest, non-U.S. unitholders would be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the regular graduated rates, which our partnership may be required to withhold. To meet U.S. federal income tax and other objectives, our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure will invest through foreign and domestic Holding Entities that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such Holding Entities may be subject to corporate income tax. To meet U.S. federal income tax and other objectives, our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure will invest through foreign and domestic Holding Entities that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such Holding Entities may be subject to corporate income tax. Consequently, items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit realized in the first instance by our operating entities will not flow, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, directly to Brookfield Infrastructure, our partnership, or our unitholders, and any such items may be subject to a corporate income tax, in the United States and other jurisdictions, at the level of the Holding Entities. Any such additional taxes may adversely affect our ability to operate solely to maximize our cash flow. Certain of our Holding Entities or operating entities may be, or may be acquired through, an entity classified as a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based on our analysis of our operating entities and Holding Entities, as well as our expectations regarding future operations, we do not believe that any operating entities are or are likely to become a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, we may in the future acquire certain investments or operating entities through one or more Holding Entities which may be treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such future Holding Entities or other companies in which we acquire an interest may be or become treated as passive foreign investment companies. U.S. unitholders face unique U.S. tax issues from indirectly owing interests in a passive foreign investment company that may result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to them. See Item 10.E “Taxation — United States Tax Considerations — Consequences to U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” Tax gain or loss on disposition of our units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their units and are taxable in the United States, they will recognize a gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those units. Prior distributions to out unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to them, which decreased the tax basis in their units, will in effect become taxable income to them for U.S. federal income tax purposes if the units are sold at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price is less than the original cost. A portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to out unitholders. Our structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. Our structure also is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of our unitholders depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. Our unitholders should be aware that the U.S. federal income tax rules, particularly those applicable to partnerships, are constantly under review (including currently) by the Congressional tax-writing committees and other persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, the U.S. Treasury Department and the courts, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations, any of which could adversely affect the value of our units and be effective on a retroactive basis. For example, changes to the U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could adversely affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including changes that make it more difficult or impossible for our partnership (and Brookfield Infrastructure) to meet the “qualifying income” exception to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation and changes that reduce the net amount of distributions available to our unitholders. Such changes could also affect or cause us to change the way we conduct our activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in our partnership, change the character or treatment of portions of our partnership’s income (including changes that recharacterize certain allocations as potentially non-deductible fees) and adversely affect an investment in our units. 19 Table of Contents Our partnership’s organizational documents and agreements permit our Managing General Partner to modify our limited partnership agreement from time-to-time, without the consent of our unitholders, to address certain changes in U.S. federal income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation. In some circumstances, such revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all of our unitholders. The IRS may not agree with certain assumptions and conventions that we use in attempting to comply with applicable U.S. federal income tax laws or that we use to report income, gain, loss, deduction and credit to our unitholders. Our partnership will apply certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to our unitholders in a manner that reflects such unitholders’ beneficial ownership of partnership items, taking into account variation in ownership interests during each taxable year because of trading activity. Because our partnership cannot match transferors and transferees of our units, our partnership will adopt depreciation, amortization and other tax accounting conventions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. In order to maintain the fungibility of all of our units at all times, we seek to achieve the uniformity of U.S. tax treatment for all purchasers of our units which are acquired at the same time and price (irrespective of the identity of the particular seller of the units or the time when the units are issued by our partnership) through the application of certain accounting principles that we believe are reasonable for our partnership. A successful IRS challenge to any of the foregoing assumptions or conventions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders and could require that items of income, gain, deductions, loss or credit, including interest deductions, be adjusted, reallocated or disallowed in a manner that adversely affects our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of our units and could have a negative impact on the value of our units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. Our unitholders may be subject to state, local and non-U.S. taxes and return filing requirements as a result of holding our units. Our unitholders may be subject to state, local and non-U.S. taxes, including unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which either our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure does business or owns property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders may be required to file income tax returns and pay income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each of our unitholders to file all U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. Our partnership may not be able to furnish to each of our unitholders specific tax information within 90 days after the close of each calendar year, which means that our unitholders who are U.S. taxpayers should anticipate the need to file annually a request for an extension of the due date of their income tax return. It may require longer than 90 days after the end of our partnership’s fiscal year to obtain the requisite information from all lower-tier entities so that Schedule K-1s may be prepared for our partnership. For this reason, our unitholders who are U.S. taxpayers should anticipate the need to file annually with the IRS (and certain states) a request for an extension past April 15 or the otherwise applicable due date of their income tax return for the taxable year. See Item 10.E “Taxation — United States Tax Considerations — Administrative Matters — Information Returns.” The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our units will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our partnership will be considered to have been terminated for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of our units within a 12-month period. A termination of our partnership would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for U.S. federal income tax purposes for all our unitholders and could result in possible acceleration of income to certain of our unitholders and certain other consequences that may adversely affect the value of our units. See Item 10.E “Taxation — United States Tax Considerations — Administrative Matters — Constructive Termination.” Canada Canada Revenue Agency may disagree with our valuation of the spin-off dividend. Our unitholders will be considered to have received a dividend as a result of the spin-off equal to the fair market value of the units of our partnership received by them in the spin-off plus the amount of cash received in lieu of fractional units. We used the volume weighted average trading price of our units on the NYSE for the five trading days immediately following the spin-off to calculate the fair market value of our units at $20.5565 per unit for these purposes. This amount is not binding on the Canada Revenue Agency, or the CRA may disagree with this valuation and this could result in increased tax liability to our unitholders. 20 Table of Contents Tax proposals may deny the deductibility of losses arising from our unitholders’ units in our partnership in computing their income for Canadian federal income tax purposes. On October 31, 2003, the Department of Finance released for public comment tax proposals, or the REOP Proposals, regarding the deductibility of interest and other expenses for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada), or the Tax Act. Under the REOP Proposals, a taxpayer would be considered to have a loss from a source that is a business or property for a taxation year only if, in that year, it is reasonable to assume that the taxpayer will realize a cumulative profit (excluding capital gains or losses) from the business or property during the period that the business is carried on or that the property is held. In general, these proposals may deny the deduction of losses arising from our unitholders’ units in our partnership in computing their income for Canadian federal income tax purposes in a particular taxation year, if, in the year the loss is claimed, it is not reasonable to expect that an overall cumulative profit would be earned from the investment in our partnership for the period in which our unitholders held and can reasonably be expected to hold the investment. Our Managing General Partner and the Infrastructure General Partner do not anticipate that the activities of our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure will, in and of themselves, generate losses. However, investors may incur expenses in connection with an acquisition of units in our partnership that could result in a loss that would be affected by the REOP Proposals. The REOP Proposals have been the subject of a number of submissions to the Minister of Finance (Canada). As part of the 2005 federal budget, the Minister of Finance (Canada) announced that an alternative proposal to reflect the REOP Proposals would be released for comment at an early opportunity. No such alternative proposal has been released to date. There can be no assurance that such alternative proposal will not adversely affect our unitholders or that it may not differ significantly from the REOP Proposals described above and in Item 10.E “Taxation – Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations.” If the non-Canadian subsidiaries in which Brookfield Infrastructure directly invests earn income that is foreign accrual property income our unitholders may be required to include amounts allocated from our partnership in computing their income for Canadian federal income tax purposes even though there may be no corresponding cash distribution. Each of the non-Canadian subsidiaries in which Brookfield Infrastructure will directly invest is expected to be a “controlled foreign affiliate”, as defined in the Tax Act, of Brookfield Infrastructure. If any of such non-Canadian subsidiaries earns income that is “foreign accrual property income”, or FAPI, as defined in the Tax Act, in a taxation year, Brookfield Infrastructure’s proportionate share of such FAPI must be included in computing the income of Brookfield Infrastructure for Canadian federal income tax purposes for the fiscal period of Brookfield Infrastructure in which the taxation year of such controlled foreign affiliate that earned the FAPI ends, whether or not Brookfield Infrastructure actually receives a distribution of such income. Our partnership will include its share of such FAPI of Brookfield Infrastructure in computing its income for Canadian federal income tax purposes and our unitholders will be required to include their proportionate share of such FAPI allocated from our partnership in computing their income for Canadian federal income tax purposes. As a result, our unitholders may be required to include amounts in their income even though they have not and may not receive an actual cash distribution of such amount. If any of the non-Canadian subsidiaries in which Brookfield Infrastructure directly invests were not considered to be a controlled foreign affiliate of Brookfield Infrastructure or is a tracked interest, the interest in the non-Canadian subsidiary would be subject to the proposals regarding the taxation of investments in foreign investment entities contained in Bill C-10, unless another exemption is available. Each of the non-Canadian subsidiaries in which Brookfield Infrastructure will directly invest is expected to be a controlled foreign affiliate and not a tracked interest of Brookfield Infrastructure. On that basis, Brookfield Infrastructure’s interest in such non-Canadian subsidiaries will be exempt from the legislative proposals regarding the taxation of investments in foreign investment entities contained in Bill C-10, which was passed by the House of Commons on October 29, 2007 and received second reading in the Senate on December 4, 2007, or the FIE Proposals. However, if any of such non-Canadian subsidiaries becomes a tracked interest or ceases to be a controlled foreign affiliate of Brookfield Infrastructure or if interests in subsequently acquired non-Canadian subsidiaries are tracked interests or such subsequently acquired non-Canadian subsidiaries are not controlled foreign affiliates of Brookfield Infrastructure, Brookfield Infrastructure’s interest in such non-Canadian subsidiary would be subject to the FIE Proposals, unless another exemption from the FIE Proposals is available. If the FIE Proposals were to apply, the income tax consequences of an investment in our partnership could be materially different in certain respects from those described in Item 10.E “Taxation — Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations,” and our unitholders may be required to include amounts in their income even though they have not and may not receive an actual cash distribution of such amount. Unitholders who are not resident in Canada may be subject to Canadian federal income tax with respect to any Canadian source business income earned by our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure if our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure were considered to carry on business in Canada. If our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure were considered to carry on a business in Canada for purposes of the Tax Act, unitholders who are not resident in Canada or deemed to be resident in Canada for purposes of the Tax Act, or non-Canadian limited partners, would be subject to Canadian federal income tax on their proportionate share of any Canadian source business income earned or considered to be earned by our partnership, subject to the potential application of the safe harbour rule in section 115.2 of the Tax Act and any relief that may be provided by any relevant income tax treaty or convention. 21 Table of Contents Our Managing General Partner and the Infrastructure General Partner intend to manage the affairs of our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure, to the extent possible, so that they do not carry on business in Canada and are not considered or deemed to carry on business in Canada for purposes of the Tax Act. Nevertheless, because the determination of whether our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure is carrying on business and, if so, whether that business is carried on in Canada, is a question of fact that is dependent upon the surrounding circumstances, the CRA might contend successfully that either or both of our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure carries on business in Canada for purposes of the Tax Act. If our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure is considered to carry on business in Canada or is deemed to carry on business in Canada for the purposes of the Tax Act, non-Canadian limited partners that are corporations would be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return for each of the taxation years in which they were a non-Canadian limited partner regardless of whether relief from Canadian taxation is available under an applicable income tax treaty or convention. Non-Canadian limited partners who are individuals would only be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return for any taxation year in which they are allocated income from our partnership from carrying on business in Canada that is not exempt from Canadian taxation under the terms of an applicable income tax treaty or convention. However, under tax proposals contained in Bill C-50 which received second reading in the House of Commons on April 10, 2008, or the Bill C-50 Proposals, non-Canadian limited partners will not be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition of taxable Canadian property by our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure if the disposition is an “excluded disposition” as defined in the Bill C-50 Proposals. The Bill C-50 Proposal will be effective for disposition that occur after 2008 but no assurance can be given that this tax proposal will be enacted. Non-Canadian limited partners may be subject to Canadian federal income tax on capital gains realized by our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure on dispositions of “taxable Canadian property”. A non-Canadian limited partner will be subject to Canadian federal income tax on its proportionate share of capital gains realized by our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure on the disposition of “taxable Canadian property” as defined in the Tax Act (which includes, but is not limited to, property that is used or held in a business carried on in Canada, shares of corporations resident in Canada that are not listed on a designated stock exchange, and listed shares where the number of shares owned exceeds prescribed amounts) other than “treaty-protected property” as defined in the Tax Act. Property of our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure generally will be treaty-protected property to a non-Canadian limited partner if the gain from the disposition of the property would, because of an applicable income tax treaty or convention, be exempt from tax under the Tax Act. Our Managing General Partner and the Infrastructure General Partner advise that our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure are not expected to realize capital gains or losses from dispositions of taxable Canadian property. However, no assurance can be given in this regard. Prior to 2009, non-Canadian limited partners will be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return for any taxation year in which our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure disposes of taxable Canadian property even if any gain arising therefrom is exempt from Canadian federal income tax under an applicable income tax treaty or convention. Commencing in 2009, non-Canadian limited partners will not be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition of taxable Canadian property by our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure if the disposition is an “excluded disposition” for the purposes of the Tax Act. However after 2008, non-Canadian limited partners that are corporations will still be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition if tax would otherwise be payable under Part I of the Tax Act by the non-Canadian limited partner in respect of the disposition but is not because of a tax treaty. In general, an “excluded disposition” is a disposition of property by a taxpayer in a taxation year where (a) the taxpayer is a non-resident of Canada at the time of the disposition; (b) no tax is payable by the taxpayer under Part I of the Tax Act for the taxation year; (c) the taxpayer is not liable to pay any amounts under the Tax Act in respect of any previous taxation year (other than certain amounts for which CRA holds adequate security); and (d) each taxable Canadian property disposed of by the taxpayer in the taxation year is either (i) “excluded property” as defined in subsection 116(6) of the Tax Act or (ii) is property in respect of the disposition of which a certificate under subsection 116(2),(4) or (5.2) has been issued by CRA. Non-Canadian limited partners should consult their own tax advisors with respect to the requirements to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition of taxable Canadian property by our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure after 2008. Non-Canadian limited partners may be subject to Canadian federal income tax on capital gains realized on the disposition of our units if our units are taxable Canadian property. Any capital gain arising from the disposition or deemed disposition of our units by a non-Canadian limited partner will be subject to taxation in Canada, if, at the time of the disposition or deemed disposition, the units are taxable Canadian property, unless the units are treaty-protected property to such non-Canadian limited partner. In general, our units will be taxable Canadian property at the time of disposition or deemed disposition if, at any time within the 60-month period ending at the time of disposition or deemed disposition, the fair market value of all of the properties of our partnership that were taxable Canadian property, certain types of resource properties, income interests in trusts resident in Canada or interests in or options in respect thereof, was greater than 50% of the fair market value of all of its properties. Since our partnership’s assets will consist principally of units of Brookfield Infrastructure, our units would generally be taxable Canadian property if the units of Brookfield Infrastructure held by us were considered to be used or held by us in a business carried on in Canada or if applying the greater than 50% test to Brookfield 22 Table of Contents Infrastructure, its units were taxable Canadian property at any time during the relevant 60-month period. Units of our partnership will be treaty protected property if the gain on the disposition of the units is exempt from tax under the Tax Act under the terms of an applicable income tax treaty or convention. Our Managing General Partner advises that our units are not expected to be taxable Canadian property but no assurance can be given in this regard. See Item 10.E “Taxation — Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations — Taxation of Non-Canadian Limited Partners.” Prior to 2009, if our units constitute taxable Canadian property, non-Canadian limited partners will be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return for any taxation year in which the non-Canadian limited partner disposes of our units even if any gain arising therefrom is exempt from Canadian federal income tax under an applicable income tax treaty or convention. Commencing 2009, if our units constitute taxable Canadian property, non-Canadian limited partners will not be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition of our units if the disposition is an excluded disposition (as discussed above). If our units constitute taxable Canadian property, non-Canadian limited partners should consult their own tax advisors with respect to the requirement to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition of our units after 2008. Non-Canadian limited partners may be subject to Canadian federal reporting and withholding tax requirements on the disposition of taxable Canadian property. Non-Canadian limited partners who dispose of taxable Canadian property, other than “excluded property” as defined in the Tax Act (or who are considered to have disposed of such property on the disposition of such property by our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure), are obligated to comply with the procedures set out in section 116 of the Tax Act and obtain a certificate thereunder. In order to obtain such certificate, the non-Canadian limited partner is required to report certain particulars relating to the transaction to the CRA either prior to the transaction or not later than 10 days after the disposition occurs. Our Managing General Partner advises that our units are not expected to be taxable Canadian property and our Managing General Partner and the Infrastructure General Partner advise that our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure are not expected to dispose of property that is taxable Canadian property but no assurance can be given in these regards. Payments of dividends or interest (other than interest exempt from Canadian federal withholding tax) by residents of Canada to Brookfield Infrastructure will be subject to Canadian federal withholding tax and we may be unable to apply a reduced rate taking into account the residency or entitlement to relief under an applicable income tax treaty or convention of our unitholders. Our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure will be deemed to be a non-resident person in respect of certain amounts paid or credited to them by a person resident or deemed to be resident in Canada, including dividends or interest. Dividends or interest (other than interest exempt from Canadian federal withholding tax) paid by a person resident or deemed to be resident in Canada to Brookfield Infrastructure will be subject to withholding tax under Part XIII of the Tax Act at the rate of 25%. However, CRA’s administrative practice in similar circumstances is to permit the rate of Canadian federal withholding tax applicable to such payments to be computed by looking through the partnership and taking into account the residency of the partners (including partners who are resident in Canada) and any reduced rates of Canadian federal withholding tax that any non-Canadian limited partners may be entitled to under an applicable income tax treaty or convention provided that the residency status and entitlement to treaty benefits can be established. In determining the rate of Canadian federal withholding tax applicable to amounts paid by the Holding Entities to Brookfield Infrastructure, we expect the Holding Entities to look-through Brookfield Infrastructure and our partnership to the residency of the partners of our partnership (including partners who are residents of Canada) and to take into account any reduced rates of Canadian federal withholding tax that non-Canadian limited partners may be entitled to under an applicable income tax treaty or convention in order to determine the appropriate amount of Canadian federal withholding tax to withhold from dividends or interest paid to Brookfield Infrastructure. However, there can be no assurance that CRA would apply its administrative practice in this context. If CRA’s administrative practice is not applied and the Holding Entities withhold Canadian federal withholding tax from applicable payments on a look-through basis, the Holding Entities may be liable for additional amounts of Canadian federal withholding tax plus any associated interest and penalties. Pursuant to recent proposed amendments made by the “Fifth Protocol” to the Canada-U.S. Tax Treaty which will be effective after the Fifth Protocol has been ratified, a Canadian resident payer may be required to look-through fiscally transparent partnerships such as our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure to the residency of limited partners of our partnership who are entitled to relief under that treaty and take into account reduced rates of Canadian federal withholding tax that such limited partners may be entitled to under that treaty. While we expect the Holding Entities to look-through our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure in determining the rate of Canadian federal withholding tax applicable to amounts paid by the Holding Entities to Brookfield Infrastructure, we may be unable to accurately or timely determine the residency of our unitholders for purposes of establishing the extent to which Canadian federal withholding taxes apply or whether reduced rates of withholding apply to some or all of our unitholders. In such a case, we will withhold Canadian federal withholding tax from all payments made to Brookfield Infrastructure that are subject to Canadian federal withholding tax at the rate of 25%. Canadian resident unitholders will be entitled to claim a credit for such taxes against their Canadian federal income tax liability but non-Canadian limited partners will need to take certain steps to receive a refund or credit in respect of any such Canadian federal withholding taxes withheld equal to the difference between the withholding tax at a rate of 25% and the withholding tax at the reduced rate they are entitled to under an applicable income tax treaty or convention. See Item 10.E “Taxation - Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations” for further detail. Investors should consult their own tax advisors concerning all aspects of Canadian federal withholding taxes. 23 Table of Contents We may not be able to provide unitholders with specific information required to file their Canadian federal income tax returns by the time such tax returns are due. We may not be able to provide unitholders with specific information required to file their Canadian federal income tax returns by the time such tax returns are due. In such cases, our unitholders who are required to file Canadian federal income tax returns will be required to estimate the income or loss arising in respect of their investment in our partnership for the relevant year. This could result in liability for additional taxes, interest and possibly penalties if the actual amount of income allocable from the investment in our partnership for such year turns out to be higher. Our units may or may not continue to be “qualified investments” under the Tax Act for registered plans. Units of our partnership will be “qualified investments” under the Tax Act for trusts governed by registered retirement savings plans, deferred profit sharing plans, registered retirement income funds, registered education savings plans, registered disability savings plans, and commencing 2009, tax-free savings accounts, collectively registered plans, provided that our units are listed on a designated stock exchange (which would include the NYSE). However, unitholders may be subject to a penalty in respect of our units held in their tax-free savings account if our units are a “prohibited investment” for their tax-free savings account. In general, our units will be a prohibited investment for a unitholder’s tax-free savings account if (i) the unitholder, together with persons and partnerships with which the unitholder does not deal at arm’s length, holds 10% or more of the aggregate fair market value of all the units of our partnership, (ii) the unitholder does not deal at arm’s length with our partnership, (iii) the unitholder holds a “significant interest” within the meaning of subsection 207.01(4) of the Tax Act in a corporation, partnership or trust with which our partnership does not deal at arm’s length or (iv) our units are “restricted property” for a tax-free savings account as prescribed by the regulations to the Tax Act, unless our units are “prescribed property” for the unitholder’s tax-free savings account. Unitholders should consult their own tax advisors for advice with respect to whether our units would be a prohibited investment for their tax-free savings account. There can also be no assurance that tax laws relating to qualified investments will not be changed. Taxes may be imposed in respect of the acquisition or holding of non-qualified investments by registered plans and certain other taxpayers. The Canadian federal income tax consequences to our unitholders could be materially different in certain respects from those described in this Form 20-F if our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure is a “specified investment flow-through” partnership. On October 31, 2006, the Minister of Finance (Canada) announced tax proposals to significantly change the taxation of most publicly traded trusts and partnerships and distributions or allocations, as the case may be, from these entities to their investors. Legislation to implement these proposals was contained in Bill C-52 which received Royal Assent on June 22, 2007, referred to herein as the SIFT Rules. Under the SIFT Rules, certain income and gains earned by a “specified investment flow-through” partnership, or SIFT Partnership, will be subject to income tax at a rate similar to a corporation and allocations of such income and gains to its partners will be taxed as a dividend from a taxable Canadian corporation. In particular, a SIFT Partnership will be required to pay a tax on the total of its income from businesses carried on in Canada, income from “non-portfolio properties” as defined in the SIFT Rules (other than taxable dividends), and taxable capital gains from dispositions of non-portfolio properties. “Non-portfolio properties” include, among other things, equity interests or debt of corporations, trusts or partnerships that are resident in Canada, and of non-resident persons or partnerships the principal source of income of which is one or any combination of sources in Canada, that are held by the SIFT Partnership and have a fair market value that is greater than 10% of the equity value of such entity, or that have, together with debt or equity that the SIFT Partnership holds of entities affiliated with such entity, an aggregate fair market value that is greater than 50% of the equity value of the SIFT Partnership. The tax rate applied to the above mentioned sources of income and gains is set at a rate equal to the federal corporate tax rate, plus an amount on account of provincial tax. Under the SIFT Rules, our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure could each be a SIFT Partnership if it is a “Canadian resident partnership”. However, pursuant to tax proposals announced by the Minister of Finance (Canada) on December 20, 2007, Brookfield Infrastructure would not be a SIFT Partnership if our partnership is a SIFT Partnership, whether or not Brookfield Infrastructure is a Canadian resident partnership. Our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure will be a “Canadian resident partnership” if the central management and control of these partnerships is located in Canada. This determination is a question of fact and is expected to depend on where our Managing General Partner and the Infrastructure General Partner are located and exercise central management and control of the respective partnerships. Our Managing General Partner and the Infrastructure General Partner advise that they will each take appropriate steps so that the central management and control of these entities is not located in Canada such that the SIFT Rules should not apply to our partnership and Brookfield Infrastructure at any relevant time. However, no assurance can be given in this regard. If our partnership or Brookfield Infrastructure are SIFT Partnerships under the SIFT Rules, the Canadian income tax consequences to our unitholders could be materially different in certain respects from those described in Item 10.E “Taxation — Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations.” In addition, even if the SIFT Rules do not apply to our partnership or t Brookfield Infrastructure at any relevant time, there can be no assurance that the SIFT Rules will not be revised or amended in the future such that the SIFT Rules will apply. 24 Table of Contents 