ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and an investor in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business General economic conditions may have an adverse impact on demand for our TCS. Demand for TCS product is affected by general economic conditions. A downturn in the global solar PV panel market reduces demand for TCS. Uncertainties about economic conditions, negative financial news, tighter credit markets and declines in asset values have, in the recent past, caused our customers to postpone or cancel making purchases of TCS. Increasing budgetary pressures could reduce or eliminate government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications. A prolonged downturn in the global economy could have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, including decreased demand for our products, which would result in lower sales. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it challenging for us to: forecast demand for our products and our operating results, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Because we are recently formed and have little operating history and little experience operating a TCS production plant, we may have difficulties successfully completing and operating the plant. We have little operating history and limited resources. We are dependent on our officers and directors to manage our business and development. However, our officers and directors have little to no experience managing or operating a TCS production plant. Our lack of an operating history and our inexperience may make it difficult for us to successfully complete and operate the plant. If we do not successfully complete and operate our Wendeng plant, our results may be adversely affected. 11 We will operate in an intensely competitive industry, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively. The TCS business is highly competitive, and other companies presently in the market, or that could enter the market, could adversely affect prices for the TCS we intend to sell. There are numerous other entities operating and considering or in the process of construction of TCS plants, some of which are near or in our potential trade territory and supply region. Nationally, the TCS industry may become more competitive given the substantial initial construction of TCS facilities currently taking place. In light of such competition, there is no assurance that we will be able to complete or successfully sell our products at a profitable price. To produce TCS we must purchase significant amounts of feedstock, which may not be available to us at reasonable costs or at all. TCS production requires significant amounts of feedstock including silica powder, chlorine liquid and methanol. We have entered into agreements with third party suppliers of feedstock, including silica powder, liquid chlorine and methanol, which are needed to produce TCS. It is currently believed that these third party suppliers will likely be able to supply increased demand for either feedstock. However, even if the producers of such materials are willing to supply such feedstock for use in the operation of our plant(s), there can be no assurance at this point that we will be able to enter into long-term contracts for such supplies at all or at favorable rates. A significant reduction in the quantity of feedstock or an increase in the prices of feedstock could result in increased costs with adverse financial consequences to us. Our operating costs could be higher than we expect, and this could reduce any dividends we may potentially pay. In addition to general market fluctuations and economic conditions, we could experience significant operating cost increases from numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These increases could arise from, among others: ● Higher feedstock prices because of an inadequate supply of or greater demand for feedstock; ● Higher labor costs, particularly if there is a labor shortage; ● Higher costs for electricity due to market conditions and demands; and ● Higher transportation costs because of greater demands on truck transportation services. In addition, operating the plant subjects us to ongoing compliance with applicable governmental regulations, such as those governing pollution control, occupational safety and other matters. We may have difficulty complying with these regulations and our compliance costs could increase significantly. The price of TCS is affected primarily by the supply of TCS and with the increase in TCS plants over the next few years, the increase in the amount of TCS produced could decrease the price of TCS, which will decrease the amount of revenue we may generate. As more TCS plants come on line in China and around the world in the next few years, the price of TCS may decrease with the increased supply of TCS being produced in China and around the world. Decrease in the price of TCS will result in our generating less revenue. As more TCS plants are built, TCS production will increase and, if demand does not sufficiently increase, this could result in lower prices for TCS, which will decrease the amount of revenue we may generate. We expect that the number of TCS producers and the amount of TCS produced will likely continue to rapidly increase. In particular, we believe there is a significant push in China, and other countries in Asia to develop and construct TCS plants or products that would compete with us in the marketplace. We cannot assure you that the demand for TCS will continue to increase. The demand for TCS is dependent on numerous factors, including governmental regulations, governmental incentives, and the development of other technologies or products that may compete with TCS. If the demand for TCS does not sufficiently increase, then increased TCS production may lead to lower TCS prices. Decreases in the price of TCS will result in the Company generating lower projected revenue. The TCS industry is very competitive, which means we may not be successful in obtaining supplies or selling our products. Competition in the TCS industry is strong and growing more intense as more TCS production facilities are built and the industry expands. Our business faces competitive challenges from other plants similar to the plant and from larger facilities. The plant will be in direct competition with other TCS producers, many of which have greater resources than we do. We will compete with other facilities and customers in our regional market. We expect that additional TCS producers will enter the market if the regulatory environment remains favorable and the demand for TCS continues to increase. 12 Technological advances could significantly decrease the cost of producing TCS or result in the production of higher quality TCS, and if we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances into our operations, the plant could become uncompetitive or obsolete. We expect that technological advances in the processes and procedures for processing TCS will continue to occur. It is possible that those advances could make the processes and procedures that we intend to use at the plant less efficient or obsolete, or cause the TCS we produce to be of a lesser quality. These advances could also allow our competitors to produce TCS at a lower cost than us. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances, our TCS production methods and processes could be less efficient than our competitors, which could cause the plant to become uncompetitive. Our business will not be diversified because we will be primarily dependent on one product: TCS. As a consequence, we may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or endure any decline in the TCS industry. Our success depends on our ability to timely construct the plant and efficiently produce TCS. With the exception of the selling of Phosphorous Oxychloride, Phosphorous Trichloride and Divinylbenzene that are produced as co-products of our TCS production, we do not have any other lines of business or other sources of revenue to rely on if we are unable to produce and sell TCS and glycerin, or if the market for those products declines. We will not have the ability to produce any other products. Our lack of diversification means that we may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or to weather any significant decline in the TCS industry. Competition for qualified personnel in the TCS industry is intense, and we may not be able to hire and retain qualified managers, engineers and operators to operate the plant efficiently. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain competent personnel. We must hire or otherwise engage qualified managers, engineers and accounting, human resources, operations and other personnel. Competition for employees in the TCS industry is intense. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified and productive personnel, we may not be able to operate the plant efficiently and the amount of TCS we produce and market may decrease. Our plant requires substantial amounts of electricity, which we will depend on independent utilities to provide. Any interruption in our electricity supply may force us to halt operations. The market price of electricity fluctuates significantly. Any significant increase in the market price of electricity or our generating costs will result in increased operating costs and lower profit margins and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to hire and retain a sales staff to market our products, we will not be able to sell the TCS or glycerin that we produce. We presently do not have a sales staff to market the sale of our products. If we are unable to attract and retain competent personnel or our sales staff is unable to perform its duties, we may not have any readily available means to sell our products. Consequently, we may not obtain the best possible prices for our products. We will depend upon the performance of the sales staff we hire and our failure to sell all of our products may result in less income from sales. Risks Relating to the Solar Photovoltaic Industry Government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could be reduced or eliminated. Demand for PV equipment, including on-grid applications, has historically been dependant in part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Currently, the cost of solar electricity exceeds the retail price of electricity in most major markets in the world. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, South Korea, Japan, China and the United States, have provided subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax write-offs and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and/or manufacturers of PV products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Many of these government incentives have expired or are due to expire in time, phase out over time, cease upon exhaustion of the allocated funding and/or are subject to cancellation or non-renewal by the applicable authority. For example, Germany continues to reduce their solar feed-in tariff rate for roof-top solar systems and the elimination of subsidies of ground-based solar systems on agricultural land, effective in July 2010. Spain, which has also been a major market for PV products, reduced subsidies in 2009 from 2,400 MW per year to 500 MW of solar projects. The reduction, expiration or elimination of relevant government subsidies or other economic incentives may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and other renewable sources of energy, and adversely affect demand for PV equipment or result in increased price competition, all of which could cause our sales and revenue to decline and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Conversely, the Chinese government has adopted feed-in-tariffs, which could significantly increase solar market demand. We may not, however, benefit from such feed-in-tariffs if we are unable to compete with other TCS manufacturers. 13 Further, any government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether at any time and for any reason. Relevant statutes or regulations may be found to be anti-competitive, unconstitutional or may be amended or discontinued for other reasons. Some government subsidies and incentives have been subject to challenge in courts in certain foreign jurisdictions. New proceedings challenging minimum price regulations or other government incentives in other countries in which we conduct our business may be initiated, and if successful, could cause a decrease in demand for our products. The reduction, expiration or elimination of relevant government subsidies or other economic incentives may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and other renewable sources of energy, and adversely affect demand for PV equipment or result in increased price competition, all of which could cause our sales and revenue to decline and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of user-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are currently being modified and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of PV products and investment in the research and development of PV technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for PV systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to end-users of PV systems and make such systems less attractive to potential customers, which may have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. The photovoltaic industry may not be able to compete successfully with conventional power generation or other sources of renewable energy. Although the PV industry has experienced growth in recent years, it still comprises a relatively small component of the total power generation market and competes with other sources of renewable energy, as well as conventional power generation. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and thus demand for solar wafer manufacturing equipment, including the following: ● cost-effectiveness of solar energy compared to conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources; ● performance and reliability of solar modules compared to conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources and products; ● availability and size of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; ● success of other renewable energy generation technologies such as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal and biomass; and ● fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. 14 Risks Related to the Wendeng Plant Expansion We may change our business plan and decide not to expand the Wendeng facility. Our board of directors reserves the right not to expand the Wendeng plant. If the board of directors decides not to expand the Wendeng plant to 75,000 MT, we may not produce as many MT of TCS as planned and may also be subject to increased costs to pay for additional resources. This could cause us to be less profitable. We may need to revise cost estimates for the expansion of the Wendeng plant, and such expansion could result in devaluation of your Shares if the expansion requires additional capital. We based our anticipated capital needs on a contractual commitment and of a total project cost of approximately $10,000,000. There is also no assurance that there will not be design changes in the planned expansion, or cost overruns associated with the expansion of the plant. Any significant increase in the estimated expansion cost of the plant could delay our ability to generate revenues because our projected revenue stream may not be able to adequately support the increased cost and expense attributable to increased set-up costs. Compliance with new and existing environmental laws and rules could significantly increase our set-up and start-up costs, and force us to delay or halt set-up or operation. To expand the Wendeng plant, we will need to obtain and comply with a number of permitting requirements. As a condition of granting necessary permits, regulators could make demands that increase our costs of setting-up and operations, in which case we could be forced to obtain additional debt or equity capital. Environmental issues, such as contamination and compliance with applicable environmental standards, could arise at any time during the set-up and operation of the plant. If this occurs, it would require us to spend significant resources to remedy the issues and may delay or prevent set-up or operation of the plant. This would significantly increase the cost of the project. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary permits to expand and operate the Wendeng plant. Significant increases in the cost of the project may require us to obtain additional debt or equity capital that may be difficult and expensive to obtain, or may not be available at all, and which could delay and diminish our profitability. The estimated expansion cost of the Wendeng plant is based on certain estimates, and there is no assurance that the final cost will not be higher. Certain other events and conditions, including economic factors, site conditions, design modifications and set-up delays or overruns, could also lead to significant increases in the project costs. Delays and changes are not uncommon in similar projects such as the one in which we intend to engage, and such delays and changes may increase the cost of the project, and delay operation and expansion. Increases in the cost of the project would likely require us to procure additional debt financing, which may be difficult and expensive to obtain, or may not be available at all. If costs increase, the total cost of the expansion and capital required could increase, perhaps significantly, and our revenues may not be able to adequately support the increased expense and debt attributable to increased set-up costs. In that event, our projected profitability could be delayed and decreased. Delays due to, among others things, weather, labor or material shortages, permitting or zoning delays, or opposition from local groups, may hinder our ability to timely commence operations. Our schedule depends upon several assumptions, including the effectiveness of agreements that remain to be negotiated and signed. We could also incur delays in the expansion of the plant due to permitting or zoning delays, opposition from local groups, shortages of labor or material, defects in materials or workmanship or other causes. In addition, the availability of financing, changes in interest rates or the credit environment or changes in political administrations at the Chinese federal, provincial or local level that result in policy changes toward the plant could result in delays in our timetable for setting-up and commencement of operations. Delays will hinder our ability to commence operations and generate revenue. Defects in the performance of the Wendeng plant could result in a reduction in our revenues and profitability. Although we intend to engage third party companies to expand the plant, we do not believe we will receive any warranties with respect to materials and workmanship or assurances that the project will operate at design capacity. Defects in the setting-up or performance of the plant could occur, and there is no assurance that we, our sub-contractors or anyone else that we contract with could correct these problems. If defects delay the set-up or hinder the operations of the plant, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. 15 Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business operations take place primarily in China. Because Chinese laws, regulations and policies are continually changing, our Chinese operations will face several risks summarized below. Limitations on Chinese economic market reforms may discourage foreign investment in Chinese businesses. The value of investments in Chinese businesses could be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in China. The economic reforms in China in recent years are regarded by China’s central government as a way to introduce economic market forces into China. Given the overriding desire of the central government leadership to maintain stability in China amid rapid social and economic changes in the country, the economic market reforms of recent years could be slowed, or even reversed. Certain political and economic considerations relating to China could adversely affect our company. China is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the Chinese economy still operates under five-year and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations, or the official interpretation thereof, which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Due to various restrictions under PRC laws on the distribution of dividends by our PRC operating companies, we may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. The PRC government imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of the PRC. If we ever determine to pay a dividend, we may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Currency conversion and exchange rate volatility could adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our common stock. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of Renminbi, or RMB, into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996 (which has been amended in 1997 and 2008), and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises, or FIEs, for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in China. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. 16 Enterprises in China, including FIEs, which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, if within a certain limited amount may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange for capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Between 1994 and 2004, the exchange rate for RMB against the US dollar remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of RMB8.28 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced it would begin pegging the exchange rate of the RMB against a number of currencies, rather than just the US dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, financial condition and the value of our common stock. For example, to the extent that we need to convert US dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the US dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into US dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the US dollar appreciates against the RMB, the US dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. The legal system in China has inherent uncertainties that may limit the legal protections available in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. The legal system in China is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the central government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. As China’s foreign investment laws and regulations are relatively new and the legal system is still evolving, the interpretation of many laws, regulations and rules is not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the remedies available in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Risks Related to Regulation and Governmental Action Compliance with new and existing environmental laws and regulations could significantly increase our expansion costs, and force us to delay or halt expansion operation. To operate our plant, we need to comply with a number of permitting requirements. We may have difficulties obtaining these permits. As a condition of granting necessary permits, regulators could make additional demands that increase our costs of expansion and operations, in which case we could be forced to obtain additional debt or equity capital. Environmental issues, such as contamination and compliance with applicable environmental standards, could arise at any time during the expansion and operation of the plant. If this occurs, it would require us to spend significant resources to remedy the issues and may delay or prevent expansion or operation of the plant. This would significantly increase the cost of the plant. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary permits to expand and operate the plant. Our business is subject to extensive and potentially costly environmental regulations that could change and significantly increase our operating costs. We are subject to environmental regulations of China regulatory agencies. These regulations could result in significant compliance costs and may change in the future. Also, such agencies may seek to implement additional regulations or implement stricter interpretations of existing regulations. Changes in environmental laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing regulations may require significant additional capital expenditures or increase our operating costs, thereby causing the loss of some or all of your investment. In addition, the plant could be subject to environmental nuisance or related claims by employees, property owners, environmental groups or residents near the plant arising from air, water or other discharges. These individuals and entities may object to these discharges and emissions into the environment from the plant. Environmental and public nuisance claims, tort claims based on emissions, or increased environmental compliance costs could significantly increase our operating costs and affect our profitability. 17 Risks Related to our Common Stock There is no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends to our shareholders, which means that you could receive little or no return on your investment. Payment of dividends from our earnings and profits may be made at the sole discretion of our board of directors, subject to the provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes, our articles and restrictions imposed by our creditors. There is no assurance that we will generate any distributable cash from operations. Our board may elect to retain cash for operating purposes, debt retirement, plant improvements or expansion. Consequently, you may receive little or no return on your investment. We may authorize and issue shares of new classes that could be superior to or adversely affect you as a holder of our common stock. Our board of directors and shareholders have the power to authorize and issue shares of classes that have voting powers, designations, preferences, limitations and special rights, including preferred distribution rights, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation rights. These shares may be issued at a price and on terms determined by our board of directors. The terms of the shares and the terms of issuance of the shares could have an adverse impact on your rights and could dilute your financial interest in us. Our shares will be subordinate to all of our debts and liabilities, which increases the risk that you could lose your entire investment. Our shares are equity interests that will be subordinate to all of our current and future indebtedness with respect to claims on our assets. In any liquidation, all of our debts and liabilities must be paid before any payment is made to our shareholders. The amount of any debt financing we incur to finance the construction and commencement of operations at the plant, plus possible additional borrowings and operating liabilities, creates a substantial risk that in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, we may have no assets remaining for distribution to our shareholders after payment of our debts. There is a limited public market for our common stock. There is currently a limited public market for the common stock. Holders of our common stock may, therefore, have difficulty selling their common stock, should they decide to do so. In addition, there can be no assurances that such markets will continue or that any shares of common stock will be able to be sold without incurring a loss. Any such market price of the common stock may not necessarily bear any relationship to our book value, assets, past operating results, financial condition or any other established criteria of value, and may not be indicative of the market price for the common stock in the future. Further, the market price for the common stock may be volatile depending on a number of factors, including business performance, industry dynamics, news announcements or changes in general economic conditions. Our common stock may be deemed penny stock with a limited trading market. Our common stock is currently listed for trading in the OTCQB, which is generally considered to be a less efficient market than markets such as NASDAQ or other national exchanges, and which may cause difficulty in conducting trades and difficulty in obtaining future financing. Further, our securities are subject to the “penny stock rules” adopted pursuant to Section 15 (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The penny stock rules apply to non-NASDAQ companies whose common stock trades at less than $5.00 per share or which have tangible net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). Such rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade “penny stock” to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade “penny stock” because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. In the event that we remain subject to the “penny stock rules” for any significant period, there may develop an adverse impact on the market, if any, for our securities. Because our securities are subject to the “penny stock rules,” investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. Further, for companies whose securities are traded in the OTCQB, it is more difficult: (i) to obtain accurate quotations, (ii) to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services, such as the Dow Jones News Service, generally do not publish press releases about such companies, and (iii) to obtain needed capital. 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS A smaller reporting company is not required to provide the information required by this Item. 