Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this document before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating result. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMPANY: We have a limited operating history. We began operations in December, 2006. Since the inception of our current business operations, we have been engaged in organizational activities, including developing a strategic operating plan, developing processing technology, and raising private capital. We have no production facilities. Accordingly, we have no relevant operating history upon which an evaluation of our performance and future prospects can be made. We have had a history of losses. We have negative stockholders’s equity at December 31, 2008. We have had no income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 or 2008. We have a history of net losses. We incurred a net loss of $100 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and a net loss of $66,354 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. We incurred a net loss of $74,926 from inception through December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, we reported a negative stockholders’ equity of $1,589. We may to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to further develop our business. Our ability to generate and sustain significant additional revenues or achieve profitability will depend upon the factors discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. We cannot assure you that we will achieve or sustain profitability or that our operating losses will not increase in the future. If we do achieve profitability, we cannot be certain that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Because we had incurred continuing operating losses, our accountants have expressed doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, our accountants have expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of our continued net losses. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon: · our ability to locate clients who will purchase our products and use our services and products; and · our ability to generate significant revenues. Based upon current plans, we expect to incur operating losses in future periods because we will be incurring expenses and not generating sufficient revenues. We expect approximately $30,000 in operating costs over the next twelve months. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in generating sufficient revenues or other funds in the future to cover these operating costs. Failure to generate sufficient revenues will cause us to go out of business. - 8 - Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to evaluate our future business prospects and make decisions based on those estimates of our future performance. The concept for our business model was developed in 2006. We have operated as a corporation but have a limited operating history, based upon no revenues and a lack of profitability. These factors make it difficult to evaluate our business on the basis of historical operations. As a consequence, our past results may not be indicative of future results. Although this is true for any business, it is particularly true for us because of our limited operating history. Reliance on historical results may hinder our ability to anticipate and timely adapt to increases or decreases in sales, revenues or expenses. For example, if we overestimate our future sales for a particular period or periods based on our historical growth rate, we may increase our overhead and other operating expenses to a greater degree than we would have if we correctly anticipated the lower sales level for that period and reduced our controllable expenses accordingly. If we make poor budgetary decisions as a result of unreliable historical data, we could be continue to incur losses, which may result in a decline in our stock price. We have no experience as a public company. We have never operated as a public company. We have no experience in complying with the various rules and regulations which are required of a public company. As a result, we may not be able to operate successfully as a public company, even if our operations are successful. We plan to comply with all of the various rules and regulations which are required of a public company. However, if we cannot operate successfully as a public company, your investment may be materially adversely affected. Our inability to operate as a public company could be the basis of your losing your entire investment in us. We are implementing a strategy to grow and expand our business, which is expensive and may not generate increases in our revenues. We intend to expand our business, and we plan to incur expenses associated with our growth and expansion. Although we recently raised funds through private offerings to implement our growth strategy, these funds may not be adequate to offset all of the expenses we incur in expanding our business. We will need to generate greater revenues to offset expenses associated with our growth, and we may be unsuccessful in achieving greater revenues, despite our attempts to grow our business. If our growth strategies do not result in increased revenues, we may have to abandon our plans for further growth or may even reduce the current size of our operations. We may need to raise additional funds, and these funds may not be available when we need them. Based on our current plans, we have adjusted our operating expenses so that cash generated from operations and from working capital financing is expected to be sufficient for the foreseeable future to fund our operations at our currently forecasted levels. This has not always been the case, since we have had a history of losses. To try to operate at a break-even level based upon our current level of anticipated business activity, we believe that we must generate approximately $30,000 in revenue per year. However, if our forecasts are inaccurate, we will need to raise additional funds. On the other hand, we may choose to scale back our operations to operate at break-even with a smaller level of business activity, while adjusting our overhead to meet the revenue from current operations. In addition, we expect that we will need to raise additional funds if we decide to pursue more rapid expansion, the development of new or enhanced services and products, appropriate responses to competitive pressures, or the acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies, or if we must respond to unanticipated events that require us to make additional investments. . We cannot assure that additional financing will be available when needed on favorable terms, or at all. If these funds are not available when we need them, then we may need to change our business strategy and reduce our rate of growth. We must effectively manage the growth of our operations, or we may outgrow our current infrastructure. As of December 31, 2008, we had one employee, our President. If we experience rapid growth of our operations, we could see a backlog of client orders. We can resolve these capacity issues by hiring additional personnel and upgrading our infrastructure. However, we cannot guarantee that sufficient additional personnel will be available or that we will find suitable technology to aid our growth. In any case, we will continue pursuing additional sales growth for our company. Expanding our infrastructure will be expensive, and will require us to train our workforce, and improve our financial and managerial controls to keep pace with the growth of our operations. - 9 - Because we are small and do not have much capital, we must limit our operations. A company in our industry with limited operations has a smaller opportunity to be successful. Because we are small and do not have much capital, we must limit our operations. We must limit our operations to providing a limited range of products and services as the only area in which we operate. Because we may have to limit our operations, we may not generate sufficient sales to make a profit. If we do not make a profit, we may have to suspend or cease operations. Because our current officers and directors are involved with other businesses, some of which are in the same industry, the manner in which we operate may create the possibility of a conflict of interest. All of our officers and directors are also involved with other businesses, some of which are other businesses in the same industry. Messrs. Hanson, and Hartman are involved in other businesses in the same industry. Messrs. Ross and Neil Bernstein are involved in other business activities not related to the same industry but which require their time and attention. All of these other arrangements could create conflict of interest with respect to our operations. Each of our officers and directors is aware of their responsibilities with respect to corporate opportunities and plans to operate our Company in such a manner as to minimize the effect of any conflict of interest. Each officer and director has agreed to contract with the Company on the same or better terms and conditions than each would with unaffiliated third parties. Each of these officers and directors will use their best judgments to resolve all potential conflicts. We cannot guarantee that any potential conflicts can be avoided. Our success will be dependent upon our management. Our success will be dependent upon the decision making of our directors and executive officers. These individuals intend to commit as much time as necessary to our business, but this commitment is no assurance of success. The loss of any or all of these individuals, particularly Messrs. Ross and Neil Bernstein, could have a material, adverse impact on our operations. We have no written employment agreements with any officers and directors, including Messrs. Ross and Neil Bernstein. We have not obtained key man life insurance on the lives of any of these individuals. There are risks associated with introducing new products. If we are not successful with those product introductions, we will not realize on our investment in developing those products. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to develop product solutions, and when we choose to develop such products we will incur expenses in those development efforts. Market acceptance of new products may be slow or less than we expect. Our products also may not perform in a manner that is required by the market, or our competitors may be more effective in reaching the market segments we are targeting with these products. Slow market acceptance of these products will delay or eliminate our ability to recover our investment in these products. During any period that we unsuccessfully seek to market these products, we will also incur marketing costs without corresponding revenue. Our ability to grow our business depends on relationships with others. We have no established relationships at this time. We may never develop such relationships. Further, if we were to lose those relationships, we could lose our ability to sell certain of our products. Most of our revenue and a majority of our gross profit is expected to come from selling integrated solutions, consisting of combinations of hardware and software products produced by others. While our relationships will change from time to time, we must rely upon technology partners to augment and enhance the products we plan to sell. At the present time, we do not have any technology partners and cannot guarantee we will ever develop any such partners. If we do develop such partners, we risk that a given technology partner will change its marketing strategy and de-emphasize its use of marketing partners such as us. Our ability to generate revenue from reselling its products would diminish and our operations and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. - 10 - We are a relatively small company with limited resources compared to some of our current and potential competitors, which may hinder our ability to compete effectively. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, broader name recognition, and a larger installed base of clients than we have. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential clients. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours, which would allow them to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or changes in client requirements. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have already established supplier or joint development relationships with decision makers at our potential clients. We may be unable to hire and retain key personnel. Our future success depends on our ability to attract qualified storage technology and geospatial imagery personnel. We may be unable to attract these necessary personnel. If we fail to attract or retain skilled employees, or if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to offset our operating costs. We may need to substantially invest in marketing efforts in order to grow our business, which will be expensive. In order to grow our business, we will need to develop and maintain widespread recognition and acceptance of our company, our business model, our services and our products. We have not presented our service and product offering to the potential market. We plan to rely primarily on word of mouth from our existing contacts we develop personally through industry events to promote and market ourselves. In order to successfully grow our company, we may need to significantly increase our financial commitment to creating awareness and acceptance of our company among retailers, which would be expensive. To date, marketing and advertising expenses have been negligible. If we fail to successfully market and promote our business, we could lose potential clients to our competitors, or our growth efforts may be ineffective. If we incur significant expenses promoting and marketing ourselves, it could delay or completely forestall our profitability. Our business is not diversified, which could result in significant fluctuations in our operating results. All of our business is involved in the marketing of selling integrated data storage solutions, and, accordingly, is dependent upon trends in the sector. Downturns in the integrated data storage solutions sector could have a material adverse effect on our business. A downturn in the integrated data storage solutions sector may reduce our stock price, even if our business is successful. Our directors have the ability to significantly influence any matters to be decided by the stockholders, which may prevent or delay a change in control of our company. The current members of our Board of Directors beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 90% of our common stock, on a fully diluted basis. As a result, if they choose to vote in concert, our directors are collectively able to significantly influence the outcome of any corporate matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including any transaction that might cause a change in control, such as a merger or acquisition. It is unlikely that stockholders in favor of a matter, which is opposed by the Board of Directors, would be able to obtain the number of votes necessary to overrule the vote of the Board of Directors. Further, the control by the directors means that they may make decisions for us with which you may disagree or that you may feel is not in our best interests. - 11 - RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STOCK: Buying low-priced penny stocks is very risky and speculative. The shares are defined as a penny stock under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, and rules of the Commission. The Exchange Act and such penny stock rules generally impose additional sales practice and disclosure requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than certain accredited investors who are, generally, institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 jointly with spouse, or in transactions not recommended by the broker-dealer. For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, a broker-dealer must make a suitability determination for each purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement prior to the sale. In addition, the broker-dealer must make certain mandated disclosures in penny stock transactions, including the actual sale or purchase price and actual bid and offer quotations, the compensation to be received by the broker-dealer and certain associated persons, and deliver certain disclosures required by the Commission. Consequently, the penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to make a market in or trade our common stock and may also affect your ability to resell any shares you may purchase in this offering in the public markets. Our common stock currently has a limited trading market and there is no guarantee an active trading market will ever develop for our securities. There is presently a limited trading market for our common stock. We currently are listed in the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board but there is no active trading market. If no market is ever developed for our common stock, it will be difficult for you to sell any shares you purchase in this offering. In such a case, you may find that you are unable to achieve any benefit from your investment or liquidate your shares without considerable delay, if at all. In addition, if we fail to have our common stock quoted on a public trading market, your common stock will not have a quantifiable value and it may be difficult, if not impossible, to ever resell your shares, resulting in an inability to realize any value from your investment. The over-the-counter market for stock such as ours has had extreme price and volume fluctuations. The securities of companies such as ours have historically experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations during certain periods. These broad market fluctuations and other factors, such as new product developments and trends in the our industry and in the investment markets generally, as well as economic conditions and quarterly variations in our operational results, may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Most of our common stock is restricted but could become eligible for resale under Rule 144; this could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Of our total outstanding shares, 8,525,000, or approximately 96%, are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market subject to volume and manner of sale limitations under Rule 144 beginning in December, 2007. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. We have outstanding 8,929,000 shares at April 1, 2009. This includes the common shares we sold in our recent public offering, which may be resold in the public market immediately. As restrictions on resale end, the market price of our stock could drop significantly if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. We do not expect to pay dividends on common stock. We have not paid any cash dividends with respect to our common stock, and it is unlikely that we will pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Earnings, if any, that we may realize will be retained in the business for further development and expansion. - 12 - ITEM 