ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to our ORC Business TransPacific’s Organic Rankine Cycles systems may not achieve broad market acceptance, which would prevent us from increasing our revenue and market share. If we fail to achieve broad market acceptance of our products, there would be an adverse impact on our ability to increase our revenue, gain market share and achieve and sustain profitability. Our ability to achieve broad market acceptance for our products will be impacted by a number of factors, including: ● our ability to timely introduce and complete new designs and timely qualify and certify our products; ● whether the owners of industrial or commercial facility will be willing to purchase Organic Rankine Cycles systems from us given our limited operating history; ● our ability to obtain long-term financing for Organic Rankine Cycles installations based on our product platform on acceptable terms or at all; ● our ability to produce Organic Rankine Cycles systems that compete favorably against other solutions on the basis of price, quality, reliability and performance; ● our ability to develop products that comply with local standards and regulatory requirements, as well as potential in-country manufacturing requirements; and ● our ability to develop and maintain successful relationships with our customers and suppliers. In addition, our ability to achieve increased market share will depend on our ability to increase sales to industrial and commercial facilities and the various sources including solar, biomass, hot flue gases from process industry, landfill, geothermal, gray water/hot fluids and warm ocean waters. These potential clients often have in certain cases made substantial investments in other type of systems, which may create challenges for us to achieve their adoption of our Organic Rankine Cycles solution. The Organic Rankine Cycle industry is highly competitive and we expect to face increased competition as new and existing competitors introduce Organic Rankine Cycle products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and market share. Marketing and selling our Organic Rankine Cycle solutions against traditional solutions is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as new and existing competitors enter the Organic Rankine Cycle market. We believe that there are possibly a number of companies developing Organic Rankine Cycle and other products that will compete directly with our Organic Rankine Cycle systems. Some of our competitors have announced plans to introduce Organic Rankine Cycle products that could compete with our Organic Rankine Cycle systems. Several of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial, marketing, distribution, customer support and other resources, are more established than we are, and have significantly better brand recognition. Some of our competitors have more resources to develop or acquire, and more experience in developing or acquiring, new products and technologies and in creating market awareness for these products and technologies. Further, certain competitors may be able to develop new products more quickly than us and may be able to develop products that are more reliable or which provide more functionality than ours. In addition, some of our competitors have the financial resources to offer competitive products at aggressive or below-market pricing levels, which could cause us to lose sales or market share or require us to lower prices for our Organic Rankine Cycle systems in order to compete effectively. If we have to reduce our prices by more than we anticipated, or if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volume, reducing our costs and expenses or introducing new products, our gross profit would suffer. 16 Table of Contents We also may face competition from some of our customers who evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. For instance, solar module manufacturers could attempt to develop components that directly perform DC to AC conversion in the module itself. Due to the fact that such customers may not seek to make a profit directly from the manufacture of these products, they may have the ability to manufacture competitive products at a lower cost than we would charge such customers. As a result, these customers may purchase fewer of our Organic Rankine Cycle systems or sell products that compete with our Organic Rankine Cycles s systems, which would negatively impact our revenue and gross profit. A drop in the retail price of electricity derived from the utility grid or from alternative energy sources may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that a system owner’s decision to purchase an Organic Rankine Cycles system is strongly influenced by the cost of electricity generated by the proposed system relative to the retail price of electricity from the utility grid and the cost of other renewable energy sources, including electricity from Organic Rankine Cycles. Decreases in the retail prices of electricity from the utility grid would make it more difficult for all Organic Rankine Cycles systems to compete. In particular, growth in unconventional natural gas production and an increase in global liquefied natural gas capacity are expected to keep natural gas prices relatively low for the foreseeable future. Persistent low natural gas prices, lower prices of electricity produced from other energy sources, such as nuclear power, or improvements to the utility infrastructure could reduce the retail price of electricity from the utility grid, making the purchase of an Organic Rankine Cycles systems less economically attractive and lowering sales of our Organic Rankine Cycles systems. In addition, energy conservation technologies and public initiatives to reduce demand for electricity also could cause a fall in the retail price of electricity from the utility grid. Moreover, technological developments by our competitors in the solar components industry, including manufacturers of central inverters, could allow these competitors or their partners to offer electricity at costs lower than those that can be achieved from Organic Rankine Cycles installations based on our product platform, which could result in reduced demand for our products. If the cost of electricity generated by Organic Rankine Cycles systems is high relative to the cost of electricity from other sources, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We depend upon one outside contract manufacturer. Our operations could be disrupted if we encounter problems with this contract manufacturer. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities, and rely upon contract manufacturers to build our products. Our reliance on those contract manufacturers makes us vulnerable to possible capacity constraints and reduced control over component availability, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. The revenues that our contract manufacturer generates from our orders represent a relatively small percentage of its overall revenues. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority in the event of constrained ability to fulfill all of their customer obligations in a timely manner. In addition, the facilities in which our Organic Rankine Cycles are manufactured are located outside of the United States. We believe that the location of these facilities outside of the United States increases supply risk, including the risk of supply interruptions or reductions in manufacturing quality or controls. If our contract manufacturers were unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in required volumes and at high quality levels or renew existing terms under supply agreements, we would have to identify, qualify and select acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. An alternative contract manufacturer may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our quality or production requirements on commercially reasonable terms, including price. Any significant interruption in manufacturing would require us to reduce our supply of products to our customers, which in turn would reduce our revenues, harm our relationships with our customers and damage our relationships with our distributors and end customers and cause us to forego potential revenue opportunities. If we fail to retain our key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future success and ability to implement our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and on the continued contributions of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. All of our employees, including our senior management, are free to terminate their employment relationships with us at any time. Competition for highly skilled technical people is extremely intense, and we face challenges identifying, hiring and retaining qualified personnel in many areas of our business. If we fail to retain our senior management and other key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our strategic objectives and our business could suffer. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our LED Business We face significant challenges managing our growth as the market adopts LEDs for general lighting. Our potential for growth depends significantly on the adoption of LEDs within the general lighting market and our ability to affect this rate of adoption. Although LED lighting has grown rapidly in recent years, adoption of LEDs for general lighting is relatively new, still limited and faces significant challenges before widespread adoption. If we are unable to effectively develop, manage and expand our distribution channels for our products, our operating results may suffer. We have expanded into business channels that are different from those in which we have historically operated as we grow our business and sell LED lighting products. If we are unable to effectively penetrate these channels or develop alternate channels to ensure our products are reaching the appropriate customer base, our financial results may be adversely impacted. In addition, if we successfully penetrate or develop these channels, we cannot guarantee that customers will accept our products or that we will be able to deliver them in the timeline established by our customers. We intend to sell a substantial portion of our products to distributors. We will rely on distributors to develop and expand their customer base as well as anticipate demand from their customers. If they are not successful, our growth and profitability may be adversely impacted. Distributors must balance the need to have enough products in stock in order to meet their customers’ needs against their internal target inventory levels and the risk of potential inventory obsolescence. The risks of inventory obsolescence are especially true with technological products. The distributors’ internal target inventory levels vary depending on market cycles and a number of factors within each distributor over which we have very little, if any control. We depend upon one outside contract manufacturer. Our operations could be disrupted if we encounter problems with this contract manufacturer. All of our products are manufactured by Shanghai Lightsky Optoelectronics Technology Co., Ltd. located in Pujiang Town, Minhang district, Shanghai, China (“Lightsky”). Under the terms of our exclusive distribution agreement we are required to purchase all of our LED products from Lightsky. If Lightsky is unable to deliver our products on a timely basis at a competitive price, our business may be adversely impacted. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and have evolving technical requirements. The markets for our products are highly competitive. In the LED market, we compete with companies that manufacture or sell LED chips and LED components as well as those that sell LED lighting products. Competitors continue to offer new LED products with aggressive pricing and improved performance. Competitive pricing pressures may change and could impact our gross margins. We will operate in an industry that is subject to significant fluctuation in supply and demand that affects our LED revenue and profitability. The LED lighting industry is in the early stages of adoption and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life-cycles and fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant fluctuations, often in connection with, or in anticipation of product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. These fluctuations have been characterized by lower product demand, production overcapacity, higher inventory levels and increased pricing pressure. 18 Table of Contents The adoption of or changes in government and/or industry policies, standards or regulations relating to the efficiency, performance or other aspects of LED lighting or changes in government and/or industry policies, standards or regulations that discourage the use of certain traditional lighting technologies, could impact the demand for our LED products. The adoption of or changes in government and/or industry policies, standards or regulations relating to the efficiency, performance or other aspects of LED lighting may impact the demand for our LED products. Demand for our LED products may also be impacted by changes in government and/or industry policies, standards or regulations that discourage the use of certain traditional lighting technologies. For example, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 in the United States imposed constraints on the sale of incandescent lights which began in 2012. These constraints may be eliminated or delayed by legislative action, which could have a negative impact on demand for our products. Risks Related to Our TCS Business General economic conditions may have an adverse impact on demand for our TCS. Demand for TCS product is affected by general economic conditions. A downturn in the global solar PV panel market reduces demand for TCS. Uncertainties about economic conditions, negative financial news, tighter credit markets and declines in asset values have recently caused our customers to postpone or cancel making purchases of TCS. Increasing budgetary pressures could reduce or eliminate government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications. A prolonged downturn in the global economy, and a continuing worldwide oversupply of polysilicon, which requires TCS to be manufactured, could have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, including decreased demand and lower pricing for our products, which would result in lower sales and/or net revenues. Uncertainty about future economic conditions and the overall status of solar energy compared to other sources of energy makes it challenging for us to forecast demand for our products and our operating results, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We operate in an intensely competitive industry, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively. The TCS business is highly competitive, and other companies presently in the market, or that could enter the market, could adversely affect prices for the TCS we intend to sell. There are numerous other entities operating TCS plants, some of which are near or in our potential trade territory and supply region. Additionally, the Wendeng plant and Baokai operation will be in direct competition with other TCS producers, many of which have greater resources than we do. In light of such competition, and the current oversupply of polysilicon in the world and in China and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete or successfully sell our products at a profitable price. To produce TCS we must purchase significant amounts of feedstock, which may not be available to us at reasonable costs or at all. TCS production requires significant amounts of feedstock including silica powder, chlorine liquid and methanol. We have entered into agreements with third party suppliers of feedstock, including silica powder, liquid chlorine and methanol, which are needed to produce TCS. It is currently believed that these third party suppliers will likely be able to supply increased demand for either feedstock. However, even if the producers of such materials are willing to supply such feedstock for use in the operation of our plant(s), there can be no assurance at this point that we will be able to enter into long-term contracts for such supplies at all or at favorable rates. A significant reduction in the quantity of feedstock or an increase in the prices of feedstock could result in increased costs with adverse financial consequences to us. 19 Table of Contents Our operating costs could be higher than we expect, and this could reduce any profits. In addition to general market fluctuations and economic conditions, we could experience significant operating cost increases from numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These increases could arise from, among others: ● Higher feedstock prices because of an inadequate supply of or greater demand for feedstock; ● Higher labor costs, particularly if there is a labor shortage; ● Higher costs for electricity due to market conditions and demands; and ● Higher transportation costs because of greater demands on truck transportation services. In addition, operating the plant subjects us to ongoing compliance with applicable governmental regulations, such as those governing pollution control, occupational safety and other matters. We may have difficulty complying with these regulations and our compliance costs could increase significantly. The price of TCS is affected primarily by the price of polysilicon. Recently due to a significant worldwide oversupply of polysilicon, the price of TCS, and the amount of new TCS orders required has materially decreased which has decreased the amount of revenue we generate. The length of time that this oversupply will continue is unknown. Our competitors may have large inventories of TCS that they are willing to sell at a loss. The demand for TCS is dependent on numerous factors, including the price of polysilicon, governmental regulations, governmental incentives, and the development of other technologies or products that may compete with TCS. We cannot assure you that the demand for TCS will increase if the oversupply situation is mitigated. If the demand for TCS does not sufficiently increase and competitive TCS suppliers are willing to sell their existing TCS inventories at a loss, then TCS prices may remain at historically low levels. Decreases in the price of TCS will result in the Company generating lower projected revenue and profitability. Technological advances could significantly decrease the cost of producing TCS or result in the production of higher quality TCS, and if we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances into our operations, the plant could become uncompetitive or obsolete. We expect that technological advances in the processes and procedures for processing TCS will continue to occur. It is possible that those advances could make the processes and procedures that we intend to use at the plant less efficient or obsolete, or cause the TCS we produce to be of a lesser quality. These advances could also allow our competitors to produce TCS at a lower cost than us. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances, our TCS production methods and processes could be less efficient than our competitors, which could cause the plant to become uncompetitive. Competition for qualified personnel in the TCS industry is intense, and we may not be able to hire and retain qualified managers, engineers and operators to operate the plant efficiently. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain competent personnel. We must hire or otherwise engage qualified managers, engineers and accounting, human resources, operations and other personnel. Competition for employees in the TCS industry is intense. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified and productive personnel, we may not be able to operate the plant efficiently and the amount of TCS we produce and market may decrease. 20 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Solar Photovoltaic Industry Government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could be reduced or eliminated. Demand for PV equipment, including on-grid applications, has historically been dependent in part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Currently, the cost of solar electricity exceeds the retail price of electricity in most major markets in the world. The reduction, expiration or elimination of relevant government subsidies or other economic incentives may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and other renewable sources of energy, and adversely affect demand for PV equipment or result in increased price competition, all of which could cause our sales and revenue to decline and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Conversely, the Chinese government has adopted feed-in-tariffs, which could significantly increase solar market demand. We may not, however, benefit from such feed-in-tariffs if we are unable to compete with other TCS manufacturers. Further, any government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether at any time and for any reason. Relevant statutes or regulations may be found to be anti-competitive, unconstitutional or may be amended or discontinued for other reasons. Some government subsidies and incentives have been subject to challenge in courts in certain foreign jurisdictions. New proceedings challenging minimum price regulations or other government incentives in other countries in which we conduct our business may be initiated, and if successful, could cause a decrease in demand for our products. The reduction, expiration or elimination of relevant government subsidies or other economic incentives may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and other renewable sources of energy, and adversely affect demand for PV equipment or result in increased price competition, all of which could cause our sales and revenue to decline and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of user-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are currently being modified and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of PV products and investment in the research and development of PV technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for PV systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to end-users of PV systems and make such systems less attractive to potential customers, which may have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. The photovoltaic industry may not be able to compete successfully with conventional power generation or other sources of renewable energy. Although the PV industry has experienced growth in recent years, it still comprises a relatively small component of the total power generation market and competes with other sources of renewable energy, as well as conventional power generation. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and thus demand for solar wafer manufacturing equipment, including the following: ● cost-effectiveness of solar energy compared to conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources; ● performance and reliability of solar modules compared to conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources and products; 21 Table of Contents ● availability and size of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; ● success of other renewable energy generation technologies such as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal and biomass; and ● fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our TCS business operations take place primarily in China. Because Chinese laws, regulations and policies are continually changing, our Chinese operations will face several risks summarized below. Limitations on Chinese economic market reforms may discourage foreign investment in Chinese businesses. The value of investments in Chinese businesses could be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in China. The economic reforms in China in recent years are regarded by China’s central government as a way to introduce economic market forces into China. Given the overriding desire of the central government leadership to maintain stability in China amid rapid social and economic changes in the country, the economic market reforms of recent years could be slowed, or even reversed. Certain political and economic considerations relating to China could adversely affect our company. China is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the Chinese economy still operates under five-year and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations, or the official interpretation thereof, which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Due to various restrictions under PRC laws on the distribution of dividends by our PRC operating companies, we may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. The PRC government imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of the PRC. If we ever determine to pay a dividend, we may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. 22 Table of Contents Currency conversion and exchange rate volatility could adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our common stock. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of Renminbi, or RMB, into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996 (which has been amended in 1997 and 2008), and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises, or FIEs, for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in China. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. Enterprises in China, including FIEs, which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, if within a certain limited amount may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange for capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Between 1994 and 2004, the exchange rate for RMB against the US dollar remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of RMB8.28 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced it would begin pegging the exchange rate of the RMB against a number of currencies, rather than just the US dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, financial condition and the value of our common stock. For example, to the extent that we need to convert US dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the US dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into US dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the US dollar appreciates against the RMB, the US dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. The legal system in China has inherent uncertainties that may limit the legal protections available in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. The legal system in China is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the central government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. As China’s foreign investment laws and regulations are relatively new and the legal system is still evolving, the interpretation of many laws, regulations and rules is not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the remedies available in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Risks Related to Regulation and Governmental Action Compliance with new and existing environmental laws and regulations could significantly increase our costs. To operate our TCS plant, we need to comply with a number of permitting requirements. We may have difficulties obtaining these permits. 23 Table of Contents Our business is subject to extensive and potentially costly environmental regulations that could change and significantly increase our operating costs. We are subject to environmental regulations of China regulatory agencies. These regulations could result in significant compliance costs and may change in the future. Also, such agencies may seek to implement additional regulations or implement stricter interpretations of existing regulations. Changes in environmental laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing regulations may require significant additional capital expenditures or increase our operating costs, thereby causing the loss of some or all of your investment. In addition, the plant could be subject to environmental nuisance or related claims by employees, property owners, environmental groups or residents near the plant arising from air, water or other discharges. These individuals and entities may object to these discharges and emissions into the environment from the plant. Environmental and public nuisance claims, tort claims based on emissions, or increased environmental compliance costs could significantly increase our operating costs and affect our profitability. Risks Related to our Common Stock There is no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends to our shareholders, which means that you could receive little or no return on your investment. Payment of dividends from our earnings and profits may be made at the sole discretion of our board of directors, subject to the provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes, our articles and restrictions imposed by our creditors. There is no assurance that we will generate any distributable cash from operations. Our board may elect to retain cash for operating purposes, debt retirement, plant improvements or expansion. Consequently, you may receive little or no return on your investment. We may authorize and issue shares of new classes that could be superior to or adversely affect you as a holder of our common stock. Our board of directors and shareholders have the power to authorize and issue shares of classes that have voting powers, designations, preferences, limitations and special rights, including preferred distribution rights, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation rights. These shares may be issued at a price and on terms determined by our board of directors. The terms of the shares and the terms of issuance of the shares could have an adverse impact on your rights and could dilute your financial interest in us. Our shares will be subordinate to all of our debts and liabilities, which increases the risk that you could lose your entire investment. Our shares are equity interests that will be subordinate to all of our current and future indebtedness with respect to claims on our assets. In any liquidation, all of our debts and liabilities must be paid before any payment is made to our shareholders. The amount of any debt financing we incur to finance the construction and commencement of operations at the plant, plus possible additional borrowings and operating liabilities, creates a substantial risk that in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, we may have no assets remaining for distribution to our shareholders after payment of our debts. 24 Table of Contents There is a limited public market for our Common Stock. There is currently a limited public market for the common stock. Holders of our common stock may, therefore, have difficulty selling their common stock, should they decide to do so. In addition, there can be no assurances that such markets will continue or that any shares of Common Stock will be able to be sold without incurring a loss. Any such market price of the common stock may not necessarily bear any relationship to our book value, assets, past operating results, financial condition or any other established criteria of value, and may not be indicative of the market price for the common stock in the future. Further, the market price for the common stock may be volatile depending on a number of factors, including business performance, industry dynamics, news announcements or changes in general economic conditions. Our Common Stock trades on the OTCQB. Our Common Stock is currently listed for trading on the OTCQB, which is generally considered to be a less efficient market than markets such as NASDAQ or other national exchanges, and which may cause difficulty in conducting trades and difficulty in obtaining future financing. For companies whose securities are traded on the OTCQB, it is more difficult: (i) to obtain accurate quotations, (ii) to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services, such as the Dow Jones News Service, generally do not publish press releases about such companies, and (iii) to obtain needed capital. In late September 2011 we applied for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Markets. Although we met all of the NASDAQ’s quantitative listing criteria by the end of November 2012 in terms of minimum net worth, trading price and number of shareholders, NASDAQ has discretionary authority whether to grant to listing so there is a possibility that we may not be accepted for listing. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 