ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Report before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We are a development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results and because we lack an operating history, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing a business combination with one or more target businesses. We are currently in the process of evaluating and identifying prospective target businesses concerning a business combination but may be unable to complete a business combination. We will not generate any revenues from operations until after completing a business combination. If we expend all of the $100,000 in proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust and interest income earned on the balance of the trust account of up to 1% of the gross proceeds of our initial public offering ($10.35 million) that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking a business combination but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would dissolve and liquidate our assets. Pursuant to our Charter, among other things, we must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of the sum of the balance of the trust account at the time of the business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $27.4 million), plus the proceeds of the co-investment by June 12, 2010 (or December 12, 2010 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed by June 12, 2010 and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated by such date). If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will, in accordance with our Charter dissolve, liquidate and wind up. The foregoing requirements are set forth in Article FIFTH of our Charter and may not be eliminated without the vote of our board and the vote of at least 80% of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. 27 Table of Contents If we dissolve and liquidate before consummating a business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $10.00 per share on distribution of trust account funds and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and must dissolve and liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidating distribution will be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the planned costs of seeking a business combination. We expect these costs and expenses to include approximately $4,100,000 for expenses for the due diligence and investigation of a target business or businesses; approximately $4,100,000 for legal, accounting and other expenses associated with structuring, negotiating and documenting an initial business combination; an aggregate of up to $360,000 for office space, administrative services and secretarial support payable to Berggruen Holdings, Inc., an affiliate of Mr. Berggruen, representing $10,000 per month; $125,000 as a reserve for liquidation expenses; $125,000 for legal and accounting fees relating to our SEC reporting obligations; and approximately $290,000 for general working capital that will be used for miscellaneous expenses and reserves. If we were unable to conclude an initial business combination and expended all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, other than the proceeds deposited in the trust account, and without taking into account interest, if any, earned on the trust account, net of income taxes payable on such interest and net of interest income earned on the trust account balance of up to 1% of the gross proceeds of our initial public offering ($10.35 million) previously released to us to fund working capital requirements, the initial per-share liquidation price would be $9.82, or $0.18 less than the per-unit offering price of $10.00. Furthermore, our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidating distribution and the warrants will therefore expire worthless if we dissolve and liquidate before completing a business combination. You will not receive protections normally afforded to stockholders of certain blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are designated for completing a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, because on consummation of our initial public offering we had net tangible assets in excess of $5.0 million and maintained such net tangible assets at that time we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC that includes an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from SEC rules such as Rule 419 that are designed to protect stockholders in blank check companies. Accordingly, stockholders will not receive the benefits or protections of that rule. Among other things, this means our units became immediately tradable and we will have a longer period of time to complete a business combination than do companies subject to Rule 419. We have one year longer than most other blank check companies to effect a business combination. The period of time we have to complete a business combination is longer than blank check companies subject to Rule 419, which have 18 months to complete a business combination, or other special purpose acquisition companies, which typically have 18 or 24 months to complete a business combination. This is because of the relatively large size of our initial public offering and our belief that fewer target businesses fit within our stated acquisition criteria and that the process of searching for, negotiating and consummating a business combination may take us longer than it would for a smaller business combination. As a result, if we do complete a business combination, it may take longer than it would for other blank check companies, and if we do not complete a business combination, the proceeds of our initial public offering will remain in trust for a longer period of time before they are released to you. 28 Table of Contents If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust may be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by you will be less than $9.82 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors (such as accountants, lawyers and investment bankers) that we engage after the consummation of our initial public offering, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or if executed, that this will prevent potential contracted parties from making claims against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust may be subject to claims which would take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than $9.82 due to such claims. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to dissolve and liquidate, each of Mr. Berggruen and Mr. Franklin have agreed to personally indemnify us for any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense which we may become subject to as a result of a claim by any vendor, prospective target business or other entity that is owed money by us for services rendered or products sold but only to the extent necessary to ensure that such loss, liability, claim, damage or expense does not reduce the amount of funds held in the trust account. Based on representations made to us by Mr. Berggruen and Mr. Franklin, we believe that they are each of substantial means and capable of funding their indemnity obligations, even though we have not asked them to reserve funds for such an eventuality. Our audit committee will not be periodically reviewing any evidence that such individuals have sufficient net liquid assets to indemnify us. However, we cannot assure you that Mr. Berggruen or Mr. Franklin will be able to satisfy those obligations. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation amount would be less than $9.82 due to such claims. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public stockholders. To the extent bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not complete a business combination by June 12, 2010 (or by December 12, 2010 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed by June 12, 2010 and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated by such date). Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of certain unlawful distributions received by them in a dissolution conducted in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law. We do not intend to comply with the procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prescribes various procedures by which stockholder liability may be limited. Because we will not be complying with Section 280, we will seek stockholder approval to comply with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, requiring us to adopt a plan of dissolution that will reasonably provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, including those that are contingent, (ii) all pending proceedings to which we are a party and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors that we engage after the consummation of our initial public offering and potential target businesses. We intend to have all vendors that we engage and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account, although we have not received any such agreements to date. If our plan of distribution complies with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder. A plan of distribution in compliance with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law does not bar stockholder liability for claims not brought in a proceeding before the third anniversary of the dissolution (or such longer period directed by the Delaware Court of Chancery). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our public stockholders amounts owed to them by us even after that date. 29 Table of Contents We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination, in which case our public stockholders will receive less than $10.00 per share on distribution. Pursuant to our Charter, among other things, we must complete a business combination by June 12, 2010 (or December 12, 2010 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed by June 12, 2010 and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated by such date). If we do not comply with this requirement, we will dissolve. The foregoing requirements are set forth in Article FIFTH of our Charter and may not be eliminated without the vote of our board and the vote of at least 80% of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock. Upon dissolution and pursuant to the trust agreement, we will distribute to all of our public stockholders, in proportion to their respective equity interest, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account (net of taxes payable and that portion of the interest earned previously released to us). Each of our founders has waived their rights to participate in any liquidating distribution with respect to its founders’ common stock and has agreed to vote in favor of any dissolution and plan of distribution which we will present to our stockholders for vote. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of our dissolution and liquidation of the trust account from our remaining assets outside of the trust fund, and we estimate such costs to be between $75,000 and $125,000, if not done in connection with a stockholder vote with respect to a potential business combination. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will liquidate the investments constituting the trust account and will turn over the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public stockholders as part of our stockholder-approved dissolution and plan of distribution. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from interest released to us from the trust account if available, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot give you assurances that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. The amounts held in the trust account may be subject to claims by third parties, such as vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities, if we do not obtain waivers in advance from such third parties prior to such parties providing us with services or entering into arrangements with them. We have not received any waiver agreements at this time and we cannot assure you that such waivers will be obtained or will be enforceable by operation of law. If we do not consummate a business combination and dissolve, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. We currently believe that any dissolution and plan of distribution in connection with the expiration of the 30 and 36 month deadlines would proceed in approximately the following manner: • prior to such deadline, our board of directors will, consistent with its obligations described in our Charter and Delaware law, consider a resolution for us to dissolve and consider a plan of distribution which it may then vote to recommend to our stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out such plan of distribution as well as the board’s recommendation of such plan; • upon such deadline, we would file our preliminary proxy statement with the SEC; • if the SEC does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders, at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution and plan of distribution; and • if the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution and plan of distribution. 30 Table of Contents In the event we seek stockholder approval for our dissolution and plan of distribution and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Pursuant to the terms of our Charter, it is intended that our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. Pursuant to the trust agreement governing such funds, the funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released (other than in connection with the funding of working capital, a redemption or a business combination as described elsewhere in this prospectus). Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. These procedures, or a vote to reject any dissolution and plan of distribution by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of distribution. Since we have not yet selected a particular industry or any target business with which to complete a business combination, you will be unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We intend to consummate a business combination with a company with principal business operations in North America in any industry we choose that we believe will provide significant opportunities for growth and we are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. We have restricted our geographic focus because our sponsors or their affiliates have formed, and may form in the future, other special purpose acquisition companies that are targeting investments, and that may be offered or listed, outside of the United States or North America. Accordingly, we will likely always be prohibited from consummating a business combination with a target business whose principal business operations are outside of North America unless such opportunity was first presented to each such other entity and each such entity chose not to pursue such opportunity. If such special purpose acquisition companies are no longer searching for target businesses or they determine for any reason not to pursue a specific opportunity while we are still seeking a target business, we may expand our focus geography to pursue such target business outside of North America if we identify an attractive opportunity. In the event that we pursue a business combination opportunity outside of North America, our search criteria and guidelines will be the same as that which we will employ for a business whose principal business operations are in North America. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business or businesses with which we may ultimately enter a business combination. Although we will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risks present in that target business. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to stockholders than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. 31 Table of Contents Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our stockholders for approval. You will be relying on Mr. Berggruen’s ability to choose a suitable business combination. At the time of your investment in us, you will not be provided with an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of one or more target businesses. Accordingly, your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our stockholders for approval. In addition, a proposal that you vote against the business combination could still be approved if a sufficient number of public stockholders vote for the proposed business combination. Alternatively, a proposal that you vote for the business combination could still be rejected if a sufficient number of public stockholders vote against the proposed business combination. We may require stockholders who wish to redeem their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to comply with specific requirements for redemption that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their redemption rights prior to the deadline for exercising their rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to exercise their redemption rights regarding their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to either tender their certificates to our transfer agent at any time prior to the vote taken at the stockholder meeting relating to such business combination or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. While we have been advised that it takes a short time to deliver shares through the DWAC System, we cannot assure you of this fact. Accordingly, if it takes longer than we anticipate for stockholders to deliver their shares, stockholders who wish to exercise their redemption rights may be unable to meet the deadline for exercising their redemption rights and thus may be unable to redeem their shares. We will proceed with a business combination even if public stockholders owning in the aggregate one share less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their redemption rights. We will proceed with a business combination only if public stockholders owning at most an aggregate of one share less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their redemption rights. Accordingly, the public stockholders owning in the aggregate one share less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering may exercise their redemption rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have increased the redemption percentage (from the 20% that is customary in similar offerings to 30%) in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of stockholders holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that may otherwise be approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. As a result of this change, it may be easier for us to complete a business combination even in the face of a strong stockholder dissent, thereby negating some of the protections of having a lower redemption threshold to public stockholders. Furthermore, the ability to consummate a transaction despite stockholder disapproval in excess of what would be permissible in a traditional blank check offering may be viewed negatively by stockholders seeking stockholder protections consistent with traditional blank check offerings. 32 Table of Contents Our business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise their redemption rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of stockholders exercise their redemption rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following a business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such financing on terms favorable to us or at all. We will not be required to obtain a fairness opinion from an independent investment banking firm as to the fair market value of the target business unless the Board of Directors is unable to independently determine the fair market value. The fair market value of a target business or businesses will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, the values of comparable businesses, earnings and cash flow, and book value. If our board is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value to meet the threshold criterion, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of FINRA, formerly known as the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., with respect to the satisfaction of such criterion. In all other instances, we will have no obligation to obtain or provide you with a fairness opinion. If we were to obtain an opinion, we do not anticipate that stockholders would be entitled to rely on such opinion, nor would we take this into consideration when deciding which investment banking firm to hire. The lack of a fairness opinion may increase the risk that a proposed business target may be improperly valued by the board of directors. If we issue capital stock or redeemable debt securities to complete a business combination, your equity interest in us could be reduced or there may be a change in control of our company. Our Charter authorizes the issuance of up to 215,062,500 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. After giving effect to our initial public offering (and after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon the co-investment and full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the founders’ warrants, sponsors’ warrants and the co-investment), there are no authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance. All of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock are available for issuance. We may, with the approval of our stockholders, issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or may issue preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through redeemable debt securities, to complete a business combination, particularly as we intend to focus primarily on acquisitions of mid-cap companies with valuations between approximately $1.0 billion and $4.0 billion. Our issuance of additional shares of common stock or any preferred stock: • may significantly reduce your equity interest in us; 33 Table of Contents • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may among other things limit our ability to use any net operating loss carry forwards we have, result in the resignation of Mr. Berggruen and our other officer and directors and cause our public stockholders to become minority stockholders of the combined entity; • may, in certain circumstances, have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us; and • may adversely affect the then-prevailing market price for our common stock. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. If we acquire a company by issuing debt securities, our post-combination operating results may decline due to increased interest expense or our liquidity may be adversely affected by an acceleration of our indebtedness. We may elect to enter into a business combination that requires us to issue debt securities as part of the purchase price for a target business, particularly as we intend to focus primarily on acquisitions of mid-cap companies with valuations between approximately $1.0 billion and $4.0 billion. If we issue debt securities, such issuances may result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration, even if we are then current in our debt service obligations, if the debt securities have covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios or maintain designated reserves, and any such covenants are breached without a waiver or renegotiation; • a required immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing. Our officers and directors may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our officers and directors may be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination or be asked to continue to serve on the board of directors of the combined entity. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination, and such individuals have executed letter agreements with us, which affirmatively provide that they will not take into consideration the retention of their position in determining which acquisition to pursue. We cannot assure you that any of our officers and directors will remain in senior management or advisory positions with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination. The determination as to whether any of our officers and directors will remain with the combined company will be made at or prior to the time of our initial business combination and fully disclosed in the required proxy materials sent to our stockholders. 34 Table of Contents Our sponsors, Berggruen Holdings and Marlin Equities, currently control us and may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our sponsors, Berggruen Holdings and Marlin Equities, have agreed to act together for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of our shares and will be deemed to be a “group” for reporting purposes under the Exchange Act. As of the date hereof, our sponsors beneficially own, in the aggregate, 19.8% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (23.8% in the aggregate, upon consummation of the co-investment). Mr. Berggruen and Mr. Franklin are each deemed to beneficially own 9.9% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock (11.9% upon consummation of the co-investment). All of the shares our common stock that they are deemed to beneficially own and control are owned indirectly through their respective affiliates. Our sponsors have agreed that any common stock they own or acquire will be voted in favor of a business combination that is presented to our public stockholders. Accordingly, shares of common stock acquired by our sponsors will not have the same voting or redemption rights as our public stockholders with respect to a potential business combination, and our sponsors will not be eligible to exercise redemption rights for those shares if a business combination is approved by a majority of our public stockholders. Because our sponsors hold warrants to purchase 24,937,500 shares of our common stock (warrants to purchase 27,937,500 shares of our common stock including the co-investment warrants assuming), the exercise of those warrants may increase their ownership in us. This increase could allow our sponsors to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after consummation of our initial business combination. In addition, neither our sponsors nor their affiliates are prohibited from purchasing units or common stock in the open market. If they do so, our sponsors will have a greater influence on the vote taken in connection with a business combination. Our founders may purchase additional units or shares of our common stock and thus may exert additional influence on certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. None of our founders or their affiliates has advised us of any intention to purchase additional units or shares of common stock in the open market. However, they are not prohibited from making any such purchases. Because our founders have agreed to vote any shares so acquired in favor of any business combination presented to the public stockholders, they may have increased influence upon such a vote, which may enable us to consummate an initial business combination that would not have been approved but for the additional purchases. Our founders have advised us that they have not established any specific criteria that would trigger purchases of our securities. They have also advised us that they would most likely consider a variety of factors, including the current trading price of our common stock and whether they believed that such securities were undervalued and represented a good investment, as well as the fact that any such additional purchases would likely increase the chances that our initial business combination would be approved. 35 Table of Contents Messrs. Berggruen and Franklin and our other officer and directors are or may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us, and may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and business opportunities. Messrs. Berggruen and Franklin and our other officer and directors are or may in the future become affiliated with entities, including LAHIC and other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Messrs. Berggruen and Franklin are directors of LAHIC and Mr. Hauslein is a director in Atlas Acquisition Corp. Mr. Franklin previously served as a director of another blank check company, Marathon Acquisition Corp., but resigned as a director of that company prior to the effectiveness of its registration statement in connection with his discussions to serve as a principal and director of Freedom. We can not assure you that Mr. Berggruen, Mr. Franklin, Mr. Hauslein or our other officer and directors will not become involved in one or more other business opportunities that would present conflicts of interest in the time they allocate to us. None of Mr. Berggruen, our other officer or our directors are obligated to spend any specified amount of time on our affairs. Although Mr. Berggruen is the president of Berggruen Holdings Ltd, Mr. Berggruen is not on the board of directors nor is he an officer of any of the portfolio companies of Berggruen Holdings Ltd and therefore does not owe any direct fiduciary duties to such portfolio companies. In addition, during the period while we are pursuing the acquisition of a target business, subject to the exceptions described below, Mr. Berggruen has agreed to present business combination opportunities that fit within our criteria and guidelines to us. However, we recognize that Mr. Berggruen may be deemed an affiliate of Berggruen Holdings Ltd’s portfolio companies and that a conflict of interest could arise if an opportunity is an appropriate fit for one of such companies. Berggruen Holdings Ltd’s portfolio companies presently include a print finishing company, a media storage company, a financial services company, a wood treatment company, an enterprise software business and an aerospace parts supplier. Berggruen Holdings Ltd may at any time, or from time to time, acquire additional portfolio companies or dispose of existing portfolio companies. Any such newly acquired portfolio company would be covered by this obligation. Although we believe that we have put appropriate procedures in place to eliminate such conflicts for Mr. Berggruen, we cannot assure you that a conflict of interest won’t arise if an opportunity is an appropriate fit for one of such companies. Mr. Franklin is a director of GLG Partners, Inc. and Mr. Berggruen was a director of GLG Partners until January 2009. GLG Partners was previously a blank check company formed by our sponsors in June 2006 which consummated its initial business combination on November 2, 2007. GLG Partners operates in the alternative asset management sector. Although we do not have an industry focus, we may compete with GLG Partners for acquisition opportunities in the alternative asset management sector. We have entered into an agreement with Mr. Franklin whereby we have acknowledged that we will not interfere with his obligations to GLG Partners. Additionally, in order to avoid the potential for a conflict of interest, Mr. Franklin has committed to GLG Partners that he will first review any potential target company identified by him to determine whether such company fits within GLG Partners’ acquisition criteria. If Mr. Franklin determines that a target company does fit within the acquisition criteria of GLG Partners, he will first present such potential target to GLG Partners. Mr. Franklin will not present the potential business combination opportunity to us or our board unless GLG Partners confirms that it is not interested in pursuing a business combination with such company. Accordingly, all potential business combination opportunities with target companies in the alternative asset management sector that are identified by Mr. Franklin will be required to be presented first to GLG Partners before they can be presented to us. This procedure will make it unlikely that we will acquire a target company in the alternative asset management sector. 36 Table of Contents Mr. Berggruen is an officer and director of LAHIC and Mr. Franklin is a director of LAHIC. We may compete with LAHIC for acquisition opportunities. In order to avoid the potential for a conflict of interest, Messrs. Berggruen and Franklin have committed to us and to LAHIC that each will first review any potential target company identified by them to determine whether such company fits within our or LAHIC’s acquisition criteria. If Messrs. Berggruen and Franklin determine that a target company fits within our acquisition criteria, they will first present such potential target to us. If Messrs. Berggruen and Franklin determine that a target company fits within the acquisition criteria of LAHIC, they will first present such potential target to LAHIC. Other than as described above, neither Messrs. Berggruen nor Franklin will present potential business combination opportunities with a target business with principal business operations outside of North America first to us. Accordingly, all potential business combination opportunities with target companies with principal business operations outside North America that are identified by Messrs. Berggruen or Franklin will be required to be presented first to LAHIC before they can be presented to us. We do not believe that the potential conflict of interest with LAHIC will cause undue difficulty in finding acquisition opportunities for us. In addition, although we do not expect our independent directors to present any business combination opportunities to us, they may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us. In such instances they may determine to present these business opportunities to other entities with which they are or may be affiliated, in addition to, or instead of, presenting them to us. Due to these existing or future affiliations, Mr. Berggruen and our other officer and directors may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business combination opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Neither Berggruen Holdings nor Berggruen Holdings Ltd is obligated to provide us with first review of any business opportunities below $750.0 million and we have agreed not to pursue any business opportunities that Jarden Corporation might consider. We have entered into agreements with Berggruen Holdings, Berggruen Holdings Ltd and three of its investment professionals that until the earlier of the consummation of our initial business combination or our liquidation, we will have a right of first review that provides that if Berggruen Holdings, Berggruen Holdings Ltd or one of such investment professionals, becomes aware of, or involved with, business combination opportunities with an enterprise value of $750.0 million or more, such entity or individual will first offer the business combination opportunity to us and will only pursue such business opportunity if our board of directors determines that we will not do so, unless such business combination opportunity is competitive with one of the portfolio companies of Berggruen Holdings Ltd, in which case it would first be offered to such portfolio company. A business combination opportunity will be considered competitive with a Berggruen Holdings Ltd portfolio company if the target company is engaged in the design, development, manufacture, distribution or sale of any products, or the provision of any services, which are the same as, or competitive with, the products or services which a Berggruen Holdings Ltd portfolio company designs, develops, manufactures, distributes or sells. In addition, Mr. Franklin is chairman and chief executive officer of Jarden Corporation. Jarden’s publicly announced acquisition criteria is to acquire focused, niche consumer product companies that demonstrate a combination of attractive margins, strong cash flow characteristics, category leading positions and products that generate recurring revenues, with a particular focus on businesses or brands with product offerings that provide expansion into related categories that can be marketed through its existing distribution channels or provide it with new distribution channels for its existing products. We have entered into an agreement with Mr. Franklin whereby (i) we have acknowledged that Mr. Franklin has committed to Jarden’s Board of Directors that we generally do not intend to seek transactions that fit within Jarden’s publicly announced acquisition criteria and (ii) we will not interfere with Mr. Franklin’s obligations to Jarden. However, in order to avoid the potential for a conflict of interest, Mr. Franklin has further committed to Jarden that he will review any potential target company to determine whether such company fits within Jarden’s publicly announced acquisition criteria. If Mr. Franklin determines that such company fits within such criteria, Mr. Franklin will first confirm with an independent committee of Jarden’s Board of Directors that Jarden is not interested in pursuing a potential business combination opportunity with such company (whether such a transaction was sourced by Mr. Franklin, Mr. Berggruen, another Berggruen Holdings Ltd investment professional or any other person). If the independent committee concludes that Jarden was interested in that opportunity, we have agreed not to continue with that transaction. Although we do not believe that the potential conflict of interest with Jarden will cause undue difficulty in finding acquisition opportunities for us given the nature of Jarden’s acquisition criteria, Jarden may change its publicly announced acquisition criteria at any time without notice and additional conflicts of interest may arise. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 37 Table of Contents Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control such as that public stockholders representing 30% or more of our shares issued in our initial public offering vote against the business combination and opt to have us redeem their stock for a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our stockholders approve the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Each of our founders may have a conflict of interest in deciding if a particular target business is a good candidate for a business combination. Each of our founders has agreed to waive its right to receive distributions with respect to its founders’ common stock purchased by it before our initial public offering if we dissolve and liquidate because we fail to complete a business combination. Berggruen Holdings and Marlin Equities have purchased an aggregate of 12,000,000 sponsors’ warrants immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, and have also agreed to purchase an aggregate of 6,000,000 co-investment units immediately prior to our consummation of a business combination. Each of our founders who are also directors owns 110,400 founders’ units. The shares of common stock and warrants owned by our founders will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. Furthermore, the $12.0 million purchase price of the sponsors’ warrants will be included in the working capital that is distributed to our public stockholders in the event of our dissolution and liquidation. Our directors’ and officers’ desire to avoid rendering their common stock and warrants worthless may result in a conflict of interest when they determine whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Unless we complete a business combination, Mr. Berggruen and our other officer and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses they incur if such expenses exceed the amount not in the trust account. Therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Mr. Berggruen and our other officer and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount not required to be retained in the trust account unless the business combination is consummated. Mr. Berggruen and our other officer and directors may, as part of any such combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. If the target business’ owners do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of Mr. Berggruen and our other officer and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. In addition, the proceeds we receive from the co-investment may be used to repay the expenses for which Mr. Berggruen and our other officer and directors may negotiate repayment as part of our business combination. 38 Table of Contents We estimate that the amount of funds that will be available to us for expenses and working capital will be $10.35 million, consisting of interest that will be paid out of the trust account and net offering proceeds not held in trust. If we do not enter into a definitive business combination agreement by December 12, 2010, we expect our primary liquidity requirements during that period to include approximately $4,100,000 for expenses for the due diligence and investigation of a target business or businesses; approximately $4,100,000 for legal, accounting and other expenses associated with structuring, negotiating and documenting an initial business combination; an aggregate of up to $360,000 for administrative services and support payable to Berggruen Holdings, Inc., an affiliate of Mr. Berggruen, representing $10,000 per month; $125,000 as a reserve for liquidation expenses; $125,000 for legal and accounting fees relating to our SEC reporting obligations; and approximately $290,000 for general working capital that will be used for miscellaneous expenses and reserves. We will probably complete only one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, meaning our operations will depend on a single business that is likely to operate in a non-diverse industry or segment of an industry. The net proceeds from our offering and the offering of the sponsors’ warrants provided us with $1,016.7 million that we may use to complete a business combination ($1,076.7 million after the consummation of the co-investment). As of December 31, 2008, the balance of the trust account was $1,020.6 million. Our initial business combination must be with a target business or businesses with a fair market value of at least 80% of the sum of the balance in the trust account at the time of such business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $27.43 million) plus the proceeds of the co-investment. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. Additionally, we may encounter numerous logistical issues if we pursue multiple target businesses, including the difficulty of coordinating the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings. We may also be exposed to the risk that our inability to satisfy conditions to closing with one or more target businesses would reduce the fair market value of the remaining target businesses in the combination below the required threshold of 80% of the sum of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $27.43 million) plus the proceeds of the co-investment. Due to these added risks, we are more likely to choose a single target business with which to pursue a business combination than multiple target businesses. Unless we combine with a target business in a transaction in which the purchase price consists substantially of common stock and/or preferred stock, it is likely we will complete only our initial business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may depend solely on the performance of a single business. If this occurs, our operations will be highly concentrated and we will be exposed to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business combinations, or that operate in, diversified industries or industry segments. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the revenues and/or profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. 39 Table of Contents We depend on the limited funds available outside of the trust account and a portion of the interest earned on the trust account balance to fund our search for a target business or businesses and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, $100,000 was available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. In addition, we were entitled to have available to us the interest income earned on the trust account which is an amount equal to 1% of the gross proceeds of our initial public offering ($10.35 million) with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. If such funds are not sufficient to satisfy our working capital obligations, we will need to borrow additional funds from our sponsors, Mr. Berggruen or our directors to operate or we may dissolve and liquidate. None of our sponsors, Mr. Berggruen, our other officer or directors or any other person is obligated to lend us such funds. We may be unable to obtain additional financing if necessary to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We may consider a business combination that will require additional financing (in addition to the co-investment), particularly as we intend to primarily focus on acquisitions of mid-cap companies with valuations between approximately $1.0 billion and $4.0 billion. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete a business combination or that we will have sufficient capital with which to complete a combination with a particular target business. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the co-investment are not sufficient to facilitate a particular business combination because: • of the size of the target business; • of the depletion of offering proceeds not in trust or available to us from interest earned on the trust account balance that is expended in search of a target business; or • we must redeem for cash a significant number of shares of common stock owned by stockholders who elect to exercise their redemption rights, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If additional financing is unavailable to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure or abandon the combination and seek an alternative target business. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate a business combination, we may require such financing to operate or grow the target business. If we fail to secure such financing, this failure could have a material adverse effect on the operations or growth of the target business. Other than the co-investment, none of our officers, our directors nor any other party is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or following, a business combination. 40 Table of Contents Our outstanding warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. The units sold in our initial public offering include warrants to purchase 51,750,000 shares of common stock. We also have sold 24,937,500 (27,937,500 including the co-investment warrants) warrants to our founders (including the 12,000,000 sponsors’ warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 24,937,500 shares of our common stock (27,937,500 including the co-investment warrants). The 12,937,500 founders’ warrants included in this number are identical to those warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering except that the founders’ warrants become exercisable after our consummation of a business combination if and when the last sales price of our common stock exceeds $15.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period beginning 90 days after such business combination, will be non-redeemable so long as they are held by our founders or their permitted transferees, may be exercised by the holder on a cashless basis and are entitled to two demand registration rights and two “piggy-back” registration rights commencing one year after the consummation of a business combination. The 12,000,000 sponsors’ warrants included in this number are identical to those warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering except that the sponsors’ warrants will be non-redeemable so long as they are held by our sponsors or their permitted transferees, may be exercised by the holder on a cashless basis and pursuant to the registration rights agreement, the holders of our sponsors’ warrants and the underlying common stock will be entitled to two demand registration rights and two “piggy-back” registration rights commencing one year after the consummation of a business combination. The 3,000,000 co-investment warrants included in this number are identical to those warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering except that the holders of the co-investment warrants (including the common stock to be issued upon exercise of the co-investment warrants) will be entitled to two demand registration rights and two “piggy-back” registration rights commencing one year after the consummation of a business combination. If we issue common stock to conclude a business combination, the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock on exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to some target businesses. This is because exercise of the warrants will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Our warrants may make it more difficult to complete a business combination or increase the purchase price sought by one or more target businesses. Additionally, the sale or possibility of sale of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock or our units, or on our ability to obtain other financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. The grant of registration rights to our founders may make it more difficult to complete a business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our founders will have two demand registration rights and two piggyback registration rights with respect to the resale of (i) their shares of common stock and (ii) their warrants (including the common stock to be issued upon exercise of the co-investment warrants) at any time after one year from the date we complete a business combination. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If our founders exercise their registration rights in full, there will then be an additional 25,875,000 shares of common stock and 27,937,500 warrants (including 3,000,000 co-investment warrants) and/or up to 27,937,500 shares of common stock issued on exercise of the warrants that are eligible for trading in the public market. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make a business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the stockholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our common stock that is expected when the securities owned by our founders are registered. 41 Table of Contents You will not be able to exercise your warrants if we don’t have an effective registration statement in place when you desire to do so. No warrants will be exercisable, and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of warrants by a holder unless, at the time of such exercise, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in effect covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to that common stock. We have agreed to use our best efforts to have a registration statement in effect covering shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants from the date the warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to that common stock until the warrants expire or are redeemed. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. In addition, we may determine to exercise our right to redeem the outstanding warrants while a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not available, in which case the warrants will not be exercisable prior to their redemption. Additionally, we have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash in the absence of an effective registration statement or under any other circumstances. The warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if there is no registration statement in effect covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants or the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. Although we intend to structure the investment of our assets to meet the requirements for exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, if, prior to the consummation of a business combination, we are viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities or we own investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of our total assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on our issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940 as the net proceeds of our initial public offering and sale of warrants in our private placement offering that are to be held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates. By restricting the investment of the trust account to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. 42 Table of Contents Companies with similar business plans to ours have had limited success in completing a business transaction. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify a potential target business, or complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information, we have identified over 140 similarly structured companies which have gone public since the beginning of 2004, of which less than half have actually consummated a business combination, or announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination. As of such date, the remaining companies have more than $11.0 billion in trust and are seeking to consummate business combinations. While some of those companies have specific industries or geographies that they must complete a business combination in, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. We may therefore be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours, which will, as a result, increase demand for privately-held companies to combine with companies structured similarly to ours. Further, the fact that approximately only half of such companies have either completed a business combination or have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses may not be inclined to enter into business combinations with publicly held blank check companies like us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. We are dependent upon Mr. Berggruen, Mr. Franklin and Berggruen Holdings Ltd’s investment professionals and the loss of any of them could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals and, in particular, upon Mr. Berggruen and Mr. Franklin. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of Mr. Berggruen and Mr. Franklin, at least until we have consummated a business combination. We cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, neither Mr. Berggruen nor Mr. Franklin are required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. Moreover, Mr. Berggruen does not have any experience in acquiring businesses in our specified target range of $1.0 billion to $4.0 billion, other than the Freedom/GLG Partners transaction. We do not have employment agreements with, or key-man insurance on the life of, either of these individuals. The unexpected loss of the services of either of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. In addition, Berggruen Holdings Ltd has agreed to make available three investment professionals located at its offices in New York, Los Angeles and London to actively source an acquisition for us. Although Berggruen Holdings Ltd has agreed to make these individuals available at no cost to us, none of these individuals are required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs. 43 Table of Contents The NYSE Alternext U.S. (f/k/a the American Stock Exchange) may delist our securities which could limit stockholders’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the NYSE Alternext U.S. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the NYSE Alternext U.S. as we might not meet certain continued listing standards such as income from continuing operations. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the NYSE Alternext U.S. may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the NYSE Alternext U.S. delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences including: • a limited availability for market quotations for our securities; • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Since we may acquire a target business that is located outside the United States, we may encounter risks specific to one or more countries in which we ultimately operate. As described above, we plan to acquire a business or businesses with principal business operations located in North America. We have restricted our geographic focus because our sponsors or their affiliates have formed, and may form in the future, other special purpose acquisition companies that are targeting investments, and that may be offered or listed, outside of the United States or North America. If such special purpose acquisition companies are no longer searching for target businesses or they determine for any reason not to pursue a specific opportunity while we are still seeking a target business, we may expand our focus geography to pursue such target business outside of North America if we identify an attractive opportunity. In the event that we pursue a business combination opportunity outside of North America, our search criteria and guidelines will be the same as that which we will employ for a business whose principal business operations are in North America. In evaluating a business combination opportunity outside the United States, we will also seek to evaluate any additional risks that may arise from the location of the target business. If we acquire a company that has operations outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks that could negatively impact our future results of operations following a business combination. The additional risks we may be exposed to in these cases include but are not limited to: • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the U.S.; • cultural and language differences; 44 Table of Contents • foreign exchange controls; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and • deterioration of political relations with the United States. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements prepared in accordance with or reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we may not be able to complete a business combination with some prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are first reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports and proxy materials submitted to stockholders. Because our initial business combination must be with a target business that has a fair market value of at least 80% of the sum of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $27.43 million) at the time of our initial business combination plus the proceeds of the co-investment, we will be required to provide historical and pro forma financial information to our stockholders when seeking approval of a business combination with one or more target businesses. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed target business, including one located outside of the U.S., does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 45 Table of Contents 