risk factors for cardiovascular disease, such as cholesterol, blood pressure, smoking status, obesity, diabetes and age. In the BioImage Study, of all subjects who experienced a major cardiovascular event within one year, only 28 percent were identified as high risk at baseline using the Framingham Risk Score, a widely-used cardiovascular risk assessment algorithm. Consistent with the primary hypothesis of the validation study, the addition of CardioSCORE testing results to Framingham Risk Score assessment instead identified as high risk 60 percent of all subjects who experienced a major cardiovascular event within one year (p < 0.0001 for increase). Similarly, of all individuals who experienced a major cardiovascular event within two years, the percentage who would have been identified as high risk at baseline increased from 26 percent (Framingham risk assessment alone) to 54 percent (Framingham plus CardioSCORE; p < 0.0001 ). We expect that the full results of the BioImage Study will be presented at a major scientific conference and published in 2012. Our Discovery Pipeline Our biomarker discovery efforts are market and opportunity driven, starting with identifying an unmet clinical need and product opportunity. Obtaining suitable samples for discovery or validation is often an important gating factor for our discovery projects. We continue to evaluate our discovery priorities and as a result, our discovery pipeline will undergo periodic changes due to project completions, new emerging opportunities, issues related to access of samples, and changes in medical care or treatment options. Cardiovascular Disease and Metabolic Syndrome In 2009, we entered into a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, or CRADA, with NHLBI and Boston University to conduct certain biomarker discovery studies in the area of metabolic syndrome and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease using samples and data from the Framingham Heart Study. A CRADA is an agreement between the federal government and one or more nongovernment parties for conducting specified research or development that could lead to useful, marketable products that benefit public health. The Framingham Heart Study is one of the leading cardiovascular research studies, the results of which have been published in approximately 2,000 scientific articles since its inception in 1948. Research from the Framingham Heart Study has provided the scientific basis for many of the generally established clinical paradigms related to cardiovascular disease, such as management of obesity, hypertension and lipid disorders. 10 Table of Contents Under this CRADA with NHLBI and Boston University, we have certain rights to multivariate markers discovered as part of the joint research. In 2009, we successfully completed the pilot phase of this project and in 2011 completed the first case-control study. We are currently conducting the second of three discovery studies. The discovery studies address the following three related topics: Ø blood-based biomarkers predicting the onset of first major cardiovascular event; Ø blood-based biomarkers of metabolic syndrome, a condition comprised of a cluster of ailments, such as increased blood pressure, elevated insulin levels, excess body fat around the waist or abnormal cholesterol levels that occur together, which increase a patient’s risk of heart disease, stroke and diabetes; and Ø blood-based biomarkers corresponding to coronary artery calcium scoring, a widely accepted marker of cardiovascular disease based on a special X-ray exam. We have started to conduct initial verification studies to further investigate interesting and encouraging findings emerging from the discovery program. Preeclampsia — Markers of Diagnosis and Risk Preeclampsia is a vascular disorder that can occur after 20 weeks of pregnancy and involves the development in the pregnant woman of hypertension and excess protein in the urine. Left untreated, the condition can lead to significant risk of morbidity and mortality for both the pregnant woman and the fetus. The incidence of preeclampsia in the United States is estimated to be approximately 500,000 cases per year. Early detection and risk stratification are important aspects of the management of preeclampsia. We have identified a set of clinical blood specimens from pregnant women who developed preeclampsia, and intend to assess the role of galectin-3 in preeclampsia using these specimens in 2012. Our Discovery and Product Development Process We rely on internal discovery and in-licensing of technology in our disease fields of interest. We use a multi-phased discovery and development process which is outlined below: Discovery Our biomarker discovery phase generally starts with identifying an unmet clinical need and product opportunity. We may involve a pharmaceutical or device manufacturer, payer, or patient advocacy organization in the evaluation of the unmet need and planned discovery. We then develop a target product profile for the new test to guide the discovery and development process and support stage-gate decisions. The target product profile may be reviewed and adapted from time to time. In this phase, we apply our proprietary technology platform on a large scale to discover and validate novel biomarkers that may be used for developing novel diagnostic tests. Our platform integrates molecular measurement technologies based on specialized mass spectrometry, chromatography, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and multiplexed assay technologies. Through this platform, we are able to detect, quantify and characterize over 1,000 biological molecules, including proteins, protein variants, lipids, fatty acids, amino acids and many other compounds that may be key indicators of health, disease and drug response, from less than a few drops of blood or other bodily fluids. Our biomarker discovery workflow includes three main elements: molecular measurement, statistical analysis and bioinformatics. We believe that our technology platform represents a significant competitive advantage in our ability to discover and develop new biomarkers. Development Following the completion of one or more discovery studies in support of a project, we will review the results to determine if the results are consistent with our target product profile. We will then determine if the results warrant continuation to the next phase. We generally seek to verify our discovery results prior to initiation of a development project for a given test. The development process is designed to be consistent with industry standards and practices, and when applicable, is guided by FDA or European Union final or draft guidance documents, and standards and guidance documents published by the Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute and other recognized entities. Although our discovery may have been based on our advanced mass spectrometry platform, for commercialization, we intend to seek, when possible, low cost, generally accepted and widely available means to measure the same analyte, such as common sandwich ELISA assay formats. Our development process includes the development and optimization of an assay and acquisition of suitable specimens and data from appropriate clinical studies for the endpoints to support the targeted claims. As part of this process, we also seek appropriate institutional review board or ethical committee approval. 11 Table of Contents Finally, we test the clinical samples using the assay and then we analyze the clinical data and prepare the appropriate regulatory submission documents. Our Collaborations Our key research, development and commercialization collaborations are summarized below. Our Agreements with Leading Diagnostic Laboratory Instrument Manufacturers for the Commercialization of Automated Versions of Our Galectin-3 Test Abbott, Alere, bioMérieux and Siemens In November 2009, we entered into a strategic collaboration with Abbott Laboratories, to develop and commercialize galectin-3 assay kits and related control kits and calibrators, or Galectin-3 Products, for purposes of this agreement, utilizing our galectin-3 technology and patent rights, for use on Abbott’s Architect® Immunochemistry Diagnostics Platform, or the Abbott Architect, and other Abbott diagnostic instruments. In March 2010, we amended the November 2009 agreement to grant Abbott non-exclusive rights to develop and commercialize a galectin-3 assay for use on its iSTAT point-of-care instruments. In March 2010, we entered into a second of these strategic collaboration agreements with Alere to develop an automated version of our galectin-3 test for use on Alere’s Triage® line of instruments. In May 2010, we entered into a third similar strategic collaboration agreement with bioMérieux to develop an automated version of our galectin-3 test for use on bioMérieux’s VIDAS® line of instruments. In December 2010, we entered into a fourth similar strategic collaboration agreement with Siemens to develop an automated version of our galectin-3 test on Siemens’s systems. We refer to Abbott, Alere, bioMérieux and Siemens as our automated partners. As part of these collaborations, we entered into a non-exclusive license and distribution agreement with each automated partner, which we refer to as our automated partner agreements, pursuant to which we provided each automated partner and its affiliates with a non-exclusive, worldwide license under our patent rights related to galectin-3 to commercialize Galectin-3 Products for use on each automated partner’s respective automated instrument platform. Under the automated partner agreements, each automated partner is prohibited from sublicensing its rights to commercialize our Galectin-3 Products and, except for the Galectin-3 Products described above, is prohibited from developing galectin-3 assays covered by our patent rights. We have the right to enter into one additional license of our patent rights related to galectin-3 for the commercialization of Galectin-3 Products during the five year period from the date on which Abbott makes its first commercial sale of Galectin-3 Products, and unlimited additional licenses thereafter. Under the automated partner agreements, each automated partner will pay us a product access fee and a marketing service fee for each Galectin-3 Product it sells. Under certain circumstances, based primarily on market prices for galectin-3 assays, each automated partner will be entitled to product fee reductions to be determined by negotiation, or if the parties fail to agree, by arbitration. Additionally, if the average sales price of the Galectin-3 Products sold by us and our automated partners falls below a certain amount, the automated partners will be entitled to discontinue their sales of the Galectin-3 Products. If the automated partners were to discontinue their sales, the automated partners would have no further rights or obligations to us under the agreements. Each automated partner is required to use its commercially reasonable efforts to promote, market, sell and distribute the Galectin-3 Products worldwide. We are required to use our commercially reasonable efforts to pursue certain clinical development objectives, perform certain marketing services in the United States and certain foreign countries, and develop and implement a reimbursement strategy for galectin-3 assays in those countries. Unless terminated earlier, each automated partner agreement will expire on the expiration date of the last-to-expire patent in our patent rights related to galectin-3. In the case of each automated partner agreement, we or our automated partner may terminate the agreement upon 60 days written notice of a material breach of the agreement that is not cured within such 60 days, and, in the case of each automated partner agreement, each automated partner may terminate its agreement with us upon 30-days written notice upon the occurrence of certain events, including if the Galectin-3 Products fail to meet certain product claims, performance requirements or manufacturing requirements, the automated partners becomes aware of possible third party patent infringement of our patent rights relating to galectin-3, the Galectin-3 Products negatively impact other assay or system performance parameters that cannot be resolved, the predicate device does not receive regulatory approval in the United States or galectin-3 is either not accepted by, or a new marker showing superior clinical utility is adopted by, the physician community. ACS Biomarker We have exclusively licensed from ACS Biomarker B.V., or ACS Biomarker, a portion of the intellectual property rights covering our galectin-3 tests. In May 2007, we entered into a biomarker product license and collaboration agreement with ACS Biomarker, a 12 Table of Contents company that was formed with technology exclusively licensed from the University of Maastricht in The Netherlands, and other parties. ACS Biomarker was founded to develop and commercialize cardiovascular biomarkers discovered at the Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht. Pursuant to the agreement, as supplemented by two licensing addenda entered into in May 2007, ACS Biomarker granted to us an exclusive, worldwide sublicense to develop and commercialize two proprietary cardiovascular biomarkers for heart failure, galectin-3 and thrombospondin-2 and a proprietary cardiovascular multivariate biomarker for the early confirmation of a suspected heart attack. Each of these biomarkers is licensed by ACS Biomarker from the University of Maastricht. Our licenses are perpetual in duration and permit us to sublicense the rights to third parties. In addition, we sublicensed from ACS Biomarker the rights to certain peptides for use in diagnosing atherothrombic vascular disease. We also have the right to exclusively negotiate a license to any additional biomarkers for which ACS Biomarker holds rights and determines to offer to any third party, but ACS Biomarker is not obligated to grant us rights to such biomarkers. Under the terms of the agreement, we have executed certain plans for the development of the licensed biomarkers and are required to establish a scientific advisory board to provide input and guidance on the development plan. As consideration for the licenses, we were required to pay ACS Biomarker an up-front payment and are required to pay milestone payments and royalty prepayments to the extent that we achieve specified development and regulatory milestones. Additionally, we are obligated to pay ACS Biomarker royalties on any net sales, together with a percentage of any sublicense revenue, from our galectin-3 tests and any other products that we develop utilizing the licensed intellectual property. As of December 31, 2011, we have paid to ACS Biomarker a total of approximately $1.0 million in up-front, milestone and royalty prepayments. The agreement has an initial five-year term through May 2012 and automatically renews for additional one year periods unless either party gives not less than 30-days written notice of termination to the other party. Either party may terminate the agreement if the other party fails to perform a material obligation under the agreement, or upon the occurrence of certain bankruptcy events involving the other party. The licenses granted by ACS Biomarker to us will survive any such termination, except that if ACS Biomarker terminates the agreement for our failure to perform any material obligation (including our payment obligations or any obligation under any implementation plan), the exclusive licenses granted to us under the agreement will be converted into non-exclusive licenses. Humana In May 2007, we entered into a strategic agreement with Humana Inc., one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States, with more than 11 million medical members, and the second largest provider of Medicare benefits in the United States. Under the terms of the agreement, we and Humana are collaborating with the goal of accelerating the development of blood-based biomarkers and identifying the role of blood-based biomarkers in improving health outcomes and containing healthcare costs through individualized medicine. In furtherance of this goal, we and Humana may conduct biomarker discovery and validation studies among Humana members, for which we will pay Humana. We may also conduct research on the design and testing of methods to promote adoption of individualized medicine among covered populations. The agreement has an initial three-year term and automatically renews for an additional period of 12 months unless either party gives not less than 120 days written notice of termination to the other party. Either party may terminate the agreement upon 60-days written notice if the other party is in material default of any of its material obligations under the agreement. As part of the HRP initiative, we conducted the BioImage study, which comprised a community-based cohort of 6,600 Humana members. We have used data from the BioImage study to validate our CardioSCORE test and in support of our 510(k) application to the FDA for CardioSCORE. Although we are winding down the HRP Initiative and the BioImage study, we are working with Humana to explore ways to expand our collaboration to include certain activities related to galectin-3 and possibly CardioSCORE. Laboratory Corporation of America In May 2010, we entered into a license and supply agreement with LabCorp pursuant to which LabCorp agreed to make the galectin-3 test available to physicians in the United States. Under the terms of the agreement, we granted LabCorp and its affiliates a semi-exclusive worldwide license under our patent rights related to galectin-3 to market, offer for sale and otherwise commercialize galectin-3 testing services using our manual galectin-3 test. The license is semi-exclusive in the United States through the third year following the commercial launch of the manual test, or the semi-exclusive period, after which the license will be non-exclusive. The license is non-exclusive in Canada and the United Arab Emirates for the entire term of the agreement. During the semi-exclusive period, we are prohibited from licensing any of our patent rights related to galectin-3 to perform manual tests to certain restricted licensees, including competitors of LabCorp. Under our agreement with LabCorp, we sell our manual test kits to LabCorp at agreed upon prices. We have agreed, with limited exceptions, that the kit price to be charged to LabCorp and its affiliates shall be no less favorable than the price charged to any other third party in the United States. Pursuant to the agreement, we are required to pay certain rebate amounts to LabCorp if the aggregate number of automated tests that are capable of being performed in the United States using automated test kits sold by us or our business partners exceeds a certain amount during a specified period. We have also agreed that, to the extent we enter into agreements with third parties after May 13, 2010 to manufacture, supply or distribute automated test kits, we will require such third parties to supply such automated test kits to LabCorp and its affiliates. 13 Table of Contents Under the agreement, we will also provide LabCorp with certain clinical market development resources, programs and assistance as reasonably requested by LabCorp and LabCorp has agreed to perform certain sales, marketing and market education activities in support of our manual galectin-3 test. The agreement will terminate on the earlier of May 13, 2015 or the end of the semi-exclusive period. LabCorp may terminate the agreement at any time and for any reason upon 120-days written notice and LabCorp may terminate the agreement immediately if we undergo a change of control to a competitor of LabCorp. Either party may terminate the agreement upon 60-days written notice for failure to comply with the terms of the agreement, unless the defaulting party remedies such failure within the 60-day notice period. Health Diagnostic Laboratory, Inc. In March 2011, we entered into a supply agreement with Health Diagnostic Laboratory, Inc., or HDL, pursuant to which HDL agreed to purchase manual galectin-3 test kits from us and to offer galectin-3 testing services to physicians in the United States. Under the terms of the agreement, we have also agreed to supply manual galectin-3 test kits to any affiliate of HDL in the United States interested in purchasing manual galectin-3 test kits from us and to treat any such affiliate as HDL for the purposes of the agreement. We are entitled to receive payment of the kit price for each manual test kit purchased by HDL and its affiliates. In addition, HDL agreed to include our galectin-3 test in the standard menu of lab tests offered by HDL. In the event HDL performs a minimum amount of galectin-3 assays, the agreement requires us to provide written notice to HDL of our intention to enter into any agreement with a third party under which such party would have the right to offer or sell our CardioSCORE diagnostic test. We have also agreed to negotiate with HDL in good faith regarding the terms upon which we might enter into a similar agreement for CardioSCORE with HDL. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to provide HDL with certain clinical market development resources, programs and assistance, as reasonably requested by HDL, and HDL agreed to train its sales and service representatives and to perform certain sales, marketing and marketing education activities in support of galectin-3 testing services. The agreement is scheduled to expire on March 15, 2016, unless extended by mutual written agreement of the parties. Either party may terminate the agreement upon 60-days prior written notice for failure of the other party to comply with the terms of the agreement, unless the defaulting party remedies such failure within the 60-day notice period. Cleveland Heart Laboratory In October 2011, we entered into a pricing agreement with Cleveland Heart Lab, or CHL, to purchase manual galectin-3 test kits from us. CHL will offer our galectin-3 testing services in the standard menu of tests offered by CHL. We are entitled to receive payment of the kit price for each manual test kit purchased by CHL and its affiliates. Our Initiatives HRP Initiative In 2006, we initiated and are leading the HRP initiative for atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease. The HRP initiative consists of a series of pre-competitive, multi-party research and development projects, which are administered and coordinated by us pursuant to participation agreements with Abbott, AstraZeneca, Merck, Philips and Takeda. Since the inception of the HRP initiative, these participating companies have supported the research and development projects by providing approximately $26.6 million in funding. The overall goals of the HRP initiative are to advance the understanding, recognition and management of atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease, to provide a roadmap for the development and registration of screening, diagnostic and therapeutic interventions for high-risk plaque and to promote the use of these interventions by patients, pharmaceutical companies and third-party payers. The HRP initiative is governed by a joint steering committee, or JSC, which is comprised of designees from the participating companies, and is led by a scientific program board consisting of academic experts in the cardiovascular field, which advises the JSC and assists in the design of the research protocols. The JSC is responsible for overseeing the conduct and progress of the HRP initiative, including finalizing and approving program activities, program and activity budgets, external communications, patent filings, third party licensing and commercialization of data and rights under the HRP initiative. We will own any inventions and data that are conceived in the conduct of the HRP initiative and have agreed to grant each participating company a non-exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to all such inventions and data for any and all uses. Each participation agreement expires upon the earlier of the completion of the HRP initiative or the fifth anniversary of such agreement, unless otherwise terminated by the parties. 14 Table of Contents Among other research projects, the HRP initiative has contributed to what we believe are two important advances in the identification of patients at risk for major atherothrombotic events, including data derived from studies that validated our CardioSCORE test and a novel three-dimensional vascular ultrasound technique. The three-dimensional vascular ultrasound technique is being pursued by companies other than BG Medicine. The HRP initiative met the goals we set out to accomplish and we are no longer initiating new research projects in the initiative. We are, however, still in the process of analyzing and reporting scientific findings from prior studies, including the BioImage Study, which was conducted as part of the HRP initiative. Framingham Heart Study and Boston University We were selected for this project through a peer reviewed process by NHLBI, part of the National Institutes of Health, to participate in the NHLBI-Framingham Heart Study Biomarkers of Cardiovascular Risk Initiative, also known as the Systems Approach to Biomarker Research in Cardiovascular Disease, or SABRe CVD. The research is being conducted in collaboration with Boston University School of Medicine and School of Public Health, or Boston University. In the first quarter of 2009, we executed a five-year CRADA with NHLBI and Boston University to conduct biomarker discovery studies involving blood samples and data from the Framingham Heart Study. This collaboration is the first time that the Framingham Heart Study is partnering with a commercial entity in a CRADA research project. We have certain commercial rights to biomarker inventions resulting from this research. The Framingham Heart Study is a prospective, community-based, family study that began in 1948 among residents of Framingham, Massachusetts, to study the development of cardiovascular disease over time. The Framingham Heart Study has previously provided insights that have led to new clinical paradigms related to, among others, hypertension, lipid disorders, obesity and smoking. The findings of the Framingham Heart Study have been published in over 2,000 scientific articles. This cooperative research program commenced in the second quarter of 2009 and we have successfully completed several of the discovery studies on biosamples from the Framingham Heart Study. We continue to conduct limited novel discovery studies on the Framingham Heart Study samples, while we have started to conduct initial verification studies to further investigate interesting and encouraging findings from the discovery experiments. The CRADA contemplates research to be conducted over a five-year period. In March 2011, we extended our collaboration with the Framingham Heart Study to include a study on the role of galectin-3 in the development of heart failure by investigating if elevated levels of galectin-3 in the Framingham Heart Study cohort are associated with an increased risk for subsequent heart failure development. This research was conducted by the Framingham Heart Study under a Third Party Agreement. The results of the investigation were presented at the Annual Meeting of the American College of Cardiology in Chicago on March 24, 2012. Intellectual Property The focus of our work is the discovery, development and commercialization of novel diagnostic tests based on biomarkers. Through our research and development efforts, we have developed expertise in proprietary methods using experimental design, biological sample preparation, high throughput biomolecular analyses exploiting high-performance chromatography, mass spectrometry, immunological techniques, nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry, analytical chemistry, data normalization, statistical analyses, integration of diverse instrument-generated data sets, specialized bioinformatics methods to interpret data sets, and quality assurance and control. We seek to protect these methods as trade secrets and, in some cases, by filing patent applications. We seek to protect the diagnostic tests that we have developed based on our biomarker discoveries primarily through patents. The patentability of test methods and products based on biomarkers is well-established in most countries. Because we use an empirical as well as a hypothesis-driven approach to biomarker discovery, we measure many different molecules in each biological specimen. Thus, we may be able to identify multiple biomarkers and biomarker combinations that are associated with a clinical outcome of interest. We believe that this may enhance our ability to obtain patents for diagnostic tests based on our discoveries. However, due to technological changes that may affect our proposed products or judicial interpretation of the scope of our patents, our proposed products might not, now or in the future, be adequately covered by our patents. We have a non-exclusive license to practice and commercialize technology covered by one issued U.S. patents that relates to our methods for discovering biomarkers. In addition, as of March 1, 2012, we had three issued U.S. patents and 20 pending patent applications filed either with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, and foreign counterparts of certain of these patent applications. Where we consider it to be strategic to our business, we file patent applications in 15 Table of Contents other countries or regions including Europe, Canada, Australia and Japan, or we file international applications under the PCT reserving our right to file such applications in countries who are party to the treaty. Of our pending U.S. and PCT patent applications, three applications relate to methods for discovering biomarkers, 15 applications relate to diagnostic products that are related to our biomarker discoveries, and two applications relates to therapeutic methods that are related to our biomarker discoveries. We intend, where appropriate, to file additional patent applications and to in-license additional technology covered by patents or patent applications relating to new methods, discoveries or products. A subset of the intellectual property that we own or license relates to our galectin-3 test for heart failure. This intellectual property includes U.S. Patent No. 7,888,137 and 8,084,276, exclusively licensed from ACS Biomarker B.V. and eight corresponding patent applications pending in the U.S. and abroad, as well as issued patents in Europe and Australia, and an allowed patent in Japan. U.S. Patent No. 7,888,137 is scheduled to expire in November 2026 and U,S, Patent No. 8,084,276 is scheduled to expire in September 2024. We own a U.S. and corresponding foreign applications relating to a specific method and kit for detecting galectin-3. Any patent issuing from this U.S. application could expire as early as 2029. In addition, we own five patent applications, filed wither with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or under the PCT, and foreign counterparts of these patent applications, related to methods for clinical evaluation of subjects and therapies based on galectin-3 measurements. In addition to our internal biomarker discovery and diagnostic product development efforts, for which we plan to seek to obtain exclusive ownership rights, we participate in a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, or CRADA, with NHLBI and Boston University to conduct certain biomarker discovery studies in the area of metabolic syndrome and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease using samples and data from the Framingham Heart Study, through which we expect to obtain certain rights to patentable subject matter. We also expect to obtain certain ownership rights to intellectual property conceived in the conduct of the HRP initiative, a study of atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease that we initiated, and from our research, development and commercialization collaboration with Humana, as well as from our other initiatives or collaborations that we may undertake. We maintain a policy of requiring our employees and consultants to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements are designed both to enable us to protect and maintain the confidentiality of our trade secret information by prohibiting unauthorized disclosure or use of our technology, and to secure title to technology developed by us or on our behalf so that it may be protected through patent filings or other means. Sales and Marketing We intend to retain worldwide marketing rights to our products and we plan to be primarily responsible for spreading awareness, generating demand, increasing market adoption, working with payers to make reimbursement and coverage determinations and ensuring that our biomarker-based tests realize their market potential. We plan to collaborate with our partners on the promotion of our tests, including the development of commercial plans by our partners, which will be governed by our partnership agreements. For promoting the utility of our tests to clinicians, laboratory decision makers, payers, patients and other stakeholders, we intend to leverage the commercial capabilities of our partners, including diagnostic laboratory instrument manufacturers of automated assays for our tests and laboratory service providers. In the United States, we have developed a small, dedicated team of cardiovascular clinical liaisons that focus on promoting the science and utility of our tests with physicians, laboratories, payers and other stakeholders, which will complement the sales activities of our partners. We are also developing a small, dedicated team of cardiovascular clinical liaisons in Europe to educate key opinion leaders and to promote our tests to other physicians and key stakeholders. We are commencing these efforts in Germany, the United Kingdom and France. Manufacturing In 2009, we entered into an exclusive development and manufacturing agreement with Corgenix Medical Corporation, pursuant to which Corgenix will manufacture the BGM Galectin-3 test for distribution in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. Corgenix develops, manufactures, distributes and markets in vitro diagnostic products based on ELISA technology using the microtiter format. Corgenix is the sole manufacturer of our manual BGM Galectin-3 test. As part of our development and commercialization activities, we and Corgenix are required to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulation, or QSR, and other regulations which cover, among other things, the methods and documentation for the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA monitors compliance with QSR through periodic inspections. Competition We believe that our technology platform, our ability to discover novel, proprietary diagnostic tests that aim to address unmet medical needs and our ability to provide such tests on a non-exclusive basis through established manufacturers and laboratory service providers represent the principal methods in which we intend to compete in the diagnostic industry. 16 Table of Contents We intend to compete by involving payers, leading scientists and other stakeholders in the selection and execution of our discovery and development projects so that our diagnostic tests may better address unmet medical needs. Access to patient samples and collaboration with leading scientists through our agreement with Humana and our leading role in the HRP initiative are examples of our engagement of these stakeholders. In addition, we are pursuing two distinct paths for commercialization of our diagnostic tests, including sales of manual versions of our diagnostic tests through laboratory service providers, and sales of automated versions of our diagnostic tests through leading diagnostic instrument manufacturers for use on their instruments, which we believe sets us apart from our competitors. Established diagnostics companies, such as Abbott Diagnostics, Beckman Coulter, Roche Diagnostics, General Electric, Alere, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Mitsubishi, Philips and Siemens offer testing in the cardiovascular space to complement their legacy routine testing businesses. In addition, commercial laboratories with extensive service networks for diagnostic tests, such as LabCorp and Quest Diagnostics, have expanded or acquired testing capabilities to include more specialized cardiovascular testing. Specialized cardiovascular CLIA laboratories such as Atherotech, Berkeley Heart Lab (now part of Quest Diagnostics), Bioreference Lab (Gene Dx), Boston Heart Lab, Cleveland Heart Lab and Liposcience have expanded their presence and menu in the cardiovascular market. We have identified a number of recent entrants to the field with competing technologies and approaches in cardiovascular diagnostics. Companies that may compete with us in our current areas of focus, namely, cardiovascular disease, immune disorders and central nervous system disorders, include Athena Diagnostics, Atherotech, Berkeley Heart Lab, Bioreference Lab (Gene Dx), Boston Heart Lab, Cleveland Heart Lab, Dako, diaDexus, Liposcience, Myriad Genetics, and XDx. Regulatory We intend to seek regulatory clearance, or if required, approval, for all of our diagnostic tests currently under development in the United States, European Union member states and other countries in which we believe that there are commercial opportunities the tests. The FDA recommends that sponsors such as us interact with the agency early and often in the development of these types of diagnostic products. We intend to follow this recommendation in an effort to reduce development risks and facilitate the regulatory process. In light of the importance of the U.S. market for our potential products, and because of the opportunity to seek and receive early FDA input on development programs, we will prioritize U.S. regulatory plans and submissions over other jurisdictions. In addition, we intend to identify opportunities to prepare and submit applications to European Union member states in compliance with EU-Directive 98/79/EC and other applicable standards. We plan to prioritize European Union member states based on market size, regulatory approvals and other considerations. U.S. Regulations Food and Drug Administration In the United States, in vitro diagnostics are regulated by the FDA as medical devices. We plan to seek FDA clearance or approval for all of our diagnostic products currently under development. There are two regulatory pathways to receive authorization to market in vitro diagnostics, a 510(k) premarket notification and a premarket approval application, or PMA. The FDA makes a risk-based determination as to which pathway a particular in vitro diagnostic is eligible. The information that must be submitted to the FDA in order to obtain clearance or approval to market a new medical device varies depending on how the medical device is classified by the FDA. Medical devices are classified into one of three classes on the basis of the controls deemed by the FDA to be necessary to reasonably ensure their safety and effectiveness. Class I devices are subject to general controls, including labeling, premarket notification and adherence to FDA’s quality system regulation, which are device-specific good manufacturing practices. Class II devices are subject to general controls and special controls, including performance standards and postmarket surveillance. Class III devices are subject to most of the previously identified requirements as well as to premarket approval. Class I devices are exempt from premarket submissions to the FDA; most Class II devices require the submission of a 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA; and Class III devices require submission of a PMA. Most in vitro diagnostic kits are regulated as Class I or II devices and are either exempt from premarket notification or require a 510(k) submission. 510(k) Premarket Notification A 510(k) notification requires the sponsor to demonstrate that a medical device is substantially equivalent to another marketed device, termed a “predicate device”, that is legally marketed in the United States and for which a PMA was not required. A device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device if it has the same intended use and technological characteristics as the predicate; or has the same intended use but different technological characteristics, where the information submitted to the FDA does not raise new questions of safety and effectiveness and demonstrates that the device is at least as safe and effective as the legally marketed device. 17 Table of Contents Under current FDA policy, if a predicate device does not exist, the FDA may make a risk-based determination based on the complexity and clinical utility of the device that the device is eligible for de novo 510(k) review instead of requiring a PMA. The de novo 510(k) review process is similar to clearance of the 510(k) premarket notification, despite the lack of a suitable predicate device. The FDA’s performance goal review time for a 510(k) application is 90 days from the date of receipt, however, in practice, the review often takes significantly longer. In addition, the FDA may require additional information including clinical data in order to make a decision regarding the claims of substantial equivalence. Clinical studies of in vitro diagnostic products are typically designed with the primary objective of obtaining analytical or clinical performance data. If the FDA believes that the device is not substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will issue a “Not Substantially Equivalent” letter and designate the device as a Class III device, which will require the submission and approval of a PMA before the new device may be marketed. Under certain circumstances, the sponsor may petition the FDA to make a risk-based determination of the new device and reclassify the new device as a Class I or Class II device. The FDA recently issued several draft guidance documents that, if finalized, may affect the 510(k) review process and standards. We cannot predict which, if any, of the draft guidance will be finalized. The FDA issued a draft guidance on In Vitro Companion Diagnostic Devices on July 14, 2011 which, if finalized is intended to assist companies developing in vitro companion diagnostics and companies developing therapeutic products that depend on the use of a specific in vitro companion diagnostic for the safe and effective use of the product. The FDA defined a companion diagnostic as a device that provides information that is essential for the safe and effective use of a corresponding therapeutic product. This definition is much narrower than the commonly used term “companion diagnostic” which also refers to tests that may be useful, but are not necessarily a determining factor in the safe and effective use of the therapeutic product. If one or more of our tests is necessary for the safe and effective use of a drug, we and the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company which developed the drug may be subject to the finalized guidance. Premarket Approval The PMA process is more complex, costly and time consuming than the 510(k) process. A PMA must be supported by more detailed and comprehensive scientific evidence, including clinical data, to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the medical device for its intended purpose. If the device is determined to present a “significant risk,” the sponsor may not begin a clinical trial until it submits an investigational device exemption, or IDE, to the FDA and obtains approval from the FDA to begin the trial. After the PMA is submitted, the FDA has 45 days to make a threshold determination that the PMA is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. If the PMA is complete, the FDA will file the PMA. The FDA is subject to a performance goal review time for a PMA that is 180 days from the date of filing, although in practice this review time is longer. Questions from the FDA, requests for additional data and referrals to advisory committees may delay the process considerably. Indeed, the total process may take several years and there is no guarantee that the PMA will ever be approved. Even if approved, the FDA may limit the indication for which the device may be marketed. The FDA may also request additional clinical data as a condition of approval or after the PMA is approved. Any changes to the medical device may require a supplemental PMA to be submitted and approved. Laboratory Developed Tests Although the FDA has consistently claimed that it has the regulatory authority to regulate laboratory-developed tests, or LDTs, that are validated by the developing laboratory and has imposed labeling requirements for the results of tests utilizing analyte-specific reagents, it has generally exercised enforcement discretion and has not otherwise regulated most tests performed by laboratories that are certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act, or CLIA. In recent years, the FDA indicated that it was reviewing the regulatory requirements that will apply to laboratory-developed tests, and in July 2010 held a 2-day meeting to obtain input from stakeholders on how it should apply its authority to implement a reasonable risk-based and effective regulatory framework for LDTs. To date the FDA has not issued additional guidance on this issue. In September 2007, the FDA published a revised draft guidance document, or the Draft Guidance, that may be relevant to some of the tests we develop. The Draft Guidance describes the FDA’s position regarding potential regulation of IVDMIAs and the revision provided additional examples of the types of tests that would be subject to the Draft Guidance. An IVDMIA is a test system that employs data, derived in part from one or more in vitro assays, and an algorithm that usually, but not necessarily, runs on software, to generate a result that diagnoses a disease or condition or is used in the cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease. The FDA has recently issued numerous letters to corporations marketing genetic tests, which according to the letters appear to meet the definition of a device as that term is defined in section 201(h) of the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act. We consider the FDA’s recent statements and actions pertaining to other diagnostic tests consistent with our interpretation that the kind of tests we are pursuing are subject to FDA regulation. 18 Table of Contents In February 2007, the FDA cleared a 510(k) submission for Agendia’s MammaPrint® breast cancer recurrence test as the first IVDMIA cleared since the first version of the Draft Guidance was published. This was a complex test, based on profiling of 70 genes to determine if the patient was likely to develop a metastatic form of the disease in the future. In August 2008, the FDA cleared AlloMap by XDx as an aid in the management of patients following cardiac transplantation, in September 2009, the FDA cleared OVA1 by Vermillion as an aid in the management of a patient with possible ovarian cancer and in September 2011, the FDA cleared Roma by Fujirebio as an aid in the monitoring of patient response to therapy for ovarian cancer. The clearance of these complex tests suggests that the 510(k) process is the likely route for most, if not all, of the diagnostic tests that we are currently developing, and we intend to seek clearance under Section 510(k) for each of our diagnostic tests. Nevertheless, the FDA may require us to submit PMAs for our pipeline product candidates. We intend to conduct early and ongoing dialog with the FDA on each of our pipeline product candidates in order to obtain clarity around the classification and requirements prior to the commencement of larger-scale studies. CLIA Laboratories that perform testing on human specimens for the purpose of providing information for diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease or assessment of health are subject to CLIA. This law imposes quality standards for laboratory testing to ensure the accuracy, reliability and timeliness of patient test results. The FDA is responsible for the categorization of commercially marketed in vitro diagnostic, or IVD, tests under CLIA into one of three categories based upon the potential risk to public health in reporting erroneous results. The categories were devised on the basis of the complexity of the test, and include waived tests, tests of moderate complexity, and tests of high complexity. Laboratories performing moderate- or high-complexity testing must meet the CLIA requirements for proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and personnel. If, in the future, we choose to set up a clinical laboratory to offer a testing service following FDA clearance of our tests, we will be required to hold certain federal, state and local licenses, certifications and permits to conduct our business. Any clinical laboratory with which we might contract or to which we might sell our diagnostic tests would also be subject to these same requirements. Under CLIA, we will be required to hold a certificate applicable to the type of work we perform and to comply with standards covering personnel, facilities administration, quality systems and proficiency testing. We believe that some of the tests that we are developing will be high-complexity tests. CLIA certified laboratories are typically subject to survey and inspection every two years to assess compliance with program standards. We currently do not have any plans to set up our own laboratory to offer clinical testing services. We may also seek accreditation by the College of American Pathologists, or CAP, and licensed by some states. The CAP Laboratory Accreditation Program is an internationally recognized program that utilizes teams of practicing laboratory professionals as inspectors, and accreditation by CAP can often be used to meet CLIA and state certification requirements. We currently do not intend to offer a testing service for any LDTs, as defined under CLIA. HIPAA and Other Privacy Laws The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, established for the first time comprehensive protection for the privacy and security of health information. The HIPAA standards apply to three types of organizations, or “Covered Entities”: health plans, healthcare clearing houses, and healthcare providers which conduct certain healthcare transactions electronically. Covered Entities and their Business Associates must have in place administrative, physical, and technical standards to guard against the misuse of individually identifiable health information. Additionally, some state laws impose privacy protections more stringent than HIPAA. Most of the institutions and physicians from which we obtain biological specimens that we use in our research and validation work are Covered Entities and must obtain proper authorization from their patients for the subsequent use of those samples and associated clinical information. We are not presently subject to HIPAA; however, we may become subject to the requirements of HIPAA in the future if we provide clinical laboratory testing services or enter into specific kinds of relationships with a Covered Entity or a Business Associate of a Covered Entity. Our activities must also comply with other applicable privacy laws. For example, there are also international privacy laws that impose restrictions on the access, use, and disclosure of health information. All of these laws may impact our business. Our failure to comply with these privacy laws or significant changes in the laws restricting our ability to obtain tissue samples and associated patient information could significantly impact our business and our future business plans. European Regulations In the European Union, IVD medical devices are regulated under EU-Directive 98/79/EC, or the IVD Directive, and corresponding national provisions. The IVD Directive requires that medical devices meet the essential requirements set out in an annex of the directive. These requirements include the safety and efficacy of the devices. According to the IVD Directive, the Member States presume compliance with these essential requirements in respect of devices which are in conformity with the relevant national standards transposing the harmonized standards of which the reference numbers have been published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. These harmonized standards include ISO 13485:2003, the quality standard for medical device manufacturers. 19 Table of Contents IVD medical devices, other than devices for performance evaluation, must bear the CE marking of conformity when they are placed on the market. The CE mark is a declaration by the manufacturer that the product meets all the appropriate provisions of the relevant legislation implementing the relevant European Directive. As a general rule, the manufacturer must follow the procedure of the EC Declaration of conformity to obtain this CE marking. In the fourth quarter of 2009 we obtained CE Mark for the BGM Galectin-3 test for use as an aid in assessing the prognosis of patients with heart failure. Each European country must adopt its own laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the IVD Directive. Member States may not create any obstacle to the placing on the market or the putting into service within their territory of devices bearing the CE marking according to the conformity assessment procedures. Development Article 152 of the EC-Treaty requires a high level of human health protection to be ensured in the definition and implementation of all Community policies and activities. Community action, which complements national policies, must be directed towards improving public health, preventing human illness and diseases, and obviating sources of danger to human health. On the basis of article 152(4)(a) of the EC-Treaty, the European Legislator is required to contribute to the achievements of these objectives through adopting measures setting high standards of quality and safety of organs and substances of human origin, blood and blood derivatives. These measures, however, may not prevent any Member State, however, from maintaining or introducing more stringent protective measures. The use of bodily material, which already has been taken from humans, is not regulated by the European Legislator through specific directives. However, in the European Union the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data is regulated under EU-Directive 95/46/EC, or the PD Directive. If specimens, such as blood plasma and urine, taken from patients relate to an identified or identifiable natural person, the use of such specimens falls within the scope of the PD Directive. Member States prohibit the processing of personal data concerning health, unless processing of the data is required for the purposes of preventive medicine, medical diagnosis, the provision of care or treatment or the management of healthcare services, and where those data are processed by a health professional subject under national law or rules established by national competent bodies to the obligation of professional secrecy or by another person also subject to an equivalent obligation of secrecy. Individual European countries are free to further restrict the collection and the use of such bodily material. Reimbursement United States In the United States, payments for diagnostic tests come from several sources, including third party payers such as insurance companies and health maintenance organizations; government health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; patients; and, in certain circumstances, hospitals or referring laboratories (who then bill health third-party payers for testing). If we offer our diagnostic tests as a service through a CLIA certified laboratory contracted by us, we would directly or indirectly be responsible for billing and collection of fees for the tests. Otherwise, billing and collection would be the responsibility of the companies that purchase or license our products. Code Assignment In the United States, a third-party payer’s decisions regarding coverage and payment are driven, in large part, by the specific Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, code used to identify a test. The American Medical Association, or AMA, publishes the CPT Code, which is a listing of descriptive terms and identifying codes for reporting medical services and procedures. The purpose of the CPT Code is to provide a uniform language that accurately describes medical, surgical, and diagnostic services and therefore to ensure reliable nationwide communication among healthcare providers, patients, and third-party payers. A manufacturer of in vitro diagnostic kits or a provider of laboratory services may request establishment of a Category I CPT code for a new product. Assignment of a specific CPT code ensures routine processing and payment for a diagnostic test by both private and government third-party payers. In October 2011, the American Medical Association CPT® Editorial Panel accepted our request to establish a Category 1 code for galectin-3 in the Pathology and laboratory/Chemistry section of CPT. The next step in the CPT code process is establishing the payment level for inclusion in the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule to be issued in October 2012. This fee schedule and the galectin-3 specific CPT code would become effective in 2013. In the interim and prior to potentially obtaining an analyte-specific CPT code for galectin-3 testing, galectin-3 testing will be eligible, in accordance with coding requirements, for CPT-coding using established CPT method codes. 20 Table of Contents The AMA has specific procedures for establishing a new CPT code and, if appropriate, for modifying existing nomenclature to incorporate a new test into an existing code. If the AMA concludes that a new code or modification of nomenclature is unnecessary, the AMA will inform the requestor how to use one or more existing codes to report the test. While the AMA’s decision is pending, billing and collection may be sought under an existing, non-specific CPT code. A manufacturer or provider may decide not to request assignment of a CPT code and instead use an existing, non-specific code for reimbursement purposes. However, use of such codes may result in more frequent denials and/or requests for supporting clinical documentation from the third-party payer and in lower reimbursement rates, which may vary based on geographical location. Coverage Decisions When deciding whether to cover a particular diagnostic test, private and government third-party payers generally consider whether the test is a covered benefit and, if so, whether it is reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of illness and injury. Most third-party payers do not cover experimental services. Coverage determinations often are influenced by current standards of practice and clinical data, particular at the local level. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, which is the government agency responsible for overseeing the Medicare program, has the authority to make coverage determinations on a national basis, but most Medicare coverage decisions are made at the local level by contractors that administer the Medicare program in specified geographic areas. Private and government third-party payers have separate processes for making coverage determinations, and private third-party payers may or may not follow Medicare’s coverage decisions. If a third-party payer has a coverage determination in place for a particular diagnostic test, billing for that test must comply with the established policy. Otherwise, the third-party payer makes reimbursement decisions on a case-by-case basis. Payment Payment for covered diagnostic tests is determined based on various methodologies, including prospective payment systems and fee schedules. In addition, private third-party payers may negotiate contractual rates with participating providers or set rates as a percentage of the billed charge. Diagnostic tests furnished to Medicare inpatients generally are included in the bundled payment made to the hospital under Medicare’s Inpatient Prospective Payment System. Payment for diagnostic tests furnished to Medicare beneficiaries in most other circumstances is made based on the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule, under which a payment amount is assigned to each covered CPT code. The law technically requires fee schedule amounts to be adjusted annually by the percentage increase in the consumer price index, or CPI, for the prior year, but Congress has frozen payment rates in certain years. For the 2012 calendar year the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule, or CLFS, was increased across all listed tests by 0.65%. Medicaid programs generally pay for diagnostic tests based on a fee schedule, but reimbursement varies by state. European Union In the European Union the reimbursement mechanisms used by private and public health insurers vary by country. For the public systems reimbursement is determined by guidelines established by the legislator or responsible national authority. As elsewhere, inclusion in reimbursement catalogues focuses on the medical usefulness, need, quality and economic benefits to patients and the healthcare system. Acceptance for reimbursement comes with cost, use and often volume restrictions, which again can vary by country. Employees As of March 30, 2012, we employed 39 full-time employees, of whom 21 had advanced degrees, 23 were engaged in research and development, 9 performed sales and marketing functions and 7 performed general and administrative functions. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we consider our relationships with our employees to be good. Company History and Available Information We were incorporated in Delaware in February 2000 and later that year chose the name Beyond Genomics, Inc. In October 2004, we changed our name to BG Medicine, Inc. We maintain our operations at 610 Lincoln Street North, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451, and our phone number is (781) 890-1199. Our Internet website address is www.bg-medicine.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available free of charge through the investor relations page of our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 21 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy We are an early stage commercial company with a history of losses resulting from our research and development efforts, we expect to incur losses for at least the next several years, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred substantial net losses since our inception in February 2000. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we incurred net losses of $17.6 million, $17.2 million and $16.1 million, respectively. Our accumulated deficit was approximately $113.3 million at December 31, 2011. We expect to continue to incur substantial net losses for at least the next several years, and these losses are likely to increase in the near-term. Historically, we have generated limited revenue from our biomarker discovery and analysis services agreements. In addition, we are in the process of transitioning into a commercial organization and to date, have generated a limited amount of product revenue. Our first product, the BGM Galectin-3TM test for heart failure, received clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in late 2010 and is commercially available throughout the United States, and in Europe under a CE Mark. This manual version of our test is being marketed in the United States through several regional and national laboratory testing facilities. As we continue to grow our commercial operations to support the sales and marketing of our galectin-3 test, as well as continue our discovery and development efforts for additional diagnostic test candidates, our expenses are expected to increase. Accordingly, we will need to generate significant revenue to achieve profitability. Even as we increases our sales for our galectin-3 test, launch automated versions of our galectin-3 test, and launch CardioSCORE, we expect our losses to continue as a result of our increased manufacturing, sales and marketing expenses to support our commercial operations, as well as ongoing research and development expenses. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development and commercialization efforts, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, and we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and then maintain profitability, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected and the market value of our common stock will decline. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize novel diagnostic products and services based on biomarkers. If we fail to develop and commercialize diagnostic products, we may be unable to execute our business plan. Historically, we have generated revenue from initiatives, collaborations and biomarker discovery and analysis services agreements with pharmaceutical companies and healthcare organizations. Our current business strategy, however, focuses on discovering, developing and commercializing diagnostic products and services based on biomarkers, and we do not expect to continue to receive significant revenue from performing biomarker discovery and analysis services for third parties. The success of our business will depend on our ability to develop and commercialize diagnostic products based on the candidates that we currently have in our product pipeline, as well as others that we might develop internally or in-license in the future. Prior to commercializing our diagnostic products, we are required to undertake time-consuming and costly development activities, sometimes including clinical studies, and to obtain regulatory clearance or approval, for which the outcome is uncertain. We have limited experience in taking biomarker discovery projects through the development and commercialization stages. There are considerable risks involved in these activities. The science and methods that we are employing are innovative and complex, and it is possible that our product development programs will ultimately not yield diagnostic tests for commercialization. Products that appear promising in early development may fail to be validated in subsequent studies, and even if we achieve positive results, we may still fail to obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals. Few research and development projects result in commercial products, and perceived viability in early clinical studies often is not replicated in later studies. At any point, we may abandon development of a product candidate, or we may be required to expend considerable resources obtaining additional clinical and nonclinical data, which would adversely impact the timing for generating potential revenue from those product candidates. If our discovery and development programs yield fewer commercial products than we expect, we may be unable to execute our business plan, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully commercialize our galectin-3 test or obtain regulatory clearance from the FDA for the automated versions of our galectin-3 test, the second indication for our existing galectin-3 test or CardioSCORE in the timeframes we expect, or at all. Our first product, the BGM Galectin-3TM test for heart failure, received clearance from the FDA in late 2010 and is commercially available throughout the United States, and in Europe under a CE Mark. This manual version of our test is being marketed in the United States through several regional and national laboratory testing facilities. In addition, we have partnered with four leading diagnostic instrument manufacturers which are developing automated instrument versions of our galectin-3 test, and we expect that, during 2012, the first two of our partners will file for regulatory clearance in the United States and also begin marketing the automated versions of the test in Europe under a CE Mark. During 2012, we also intend to file a 510(k) to extend the approved labeling indication for the BGM Galectin-3 test to include individuals at risk for developing heart failure. We are also developing CardioSCORE, a blood test designed to identify individuals at high risk for near-term, significant cardiovascular events, such as heart attack and stroke. In December 2011, we filed a 510(k) with the FDA for pre-market clearance of CardioSCORE. There are a variety of risks and uncertainties that may cause delays in, or prevent us from, successfully commercializing our BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, or obtaining regulatory clearance from the FDA for the second indication of our existing galectin-3 test, automated versions of our galectin-3 test or CardioSCORE in the timeframes we expect, or at all. Delays may result from unanticipated problems in product development, an inability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval on a timely basis and other risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may never successfully commercialize our diagnostic tests. If we are unable to execute our commercialization strategy, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain our business. We are an early stage commercial company and have engaged in only limited sales and marketing activities for our first product, the BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure. To date, we have recognized only a limited amount of product revenue. We are in the process of transitioning into a commercial organization, and we have very limited experience to date in conducting commercial activities. We anticipate that a substantial portion of any future product revenue will come from sales of our galectin-3 test and, if cleared by the FDA, our CardioSCORE diagnostic test. Our first product, the BGM Galectin-3TM test for heart failure, received-clearance from the FDA in late 2010 and is commercially available throughout the United States, and in Europe under a CE Mark. This manual version of our test is being marketed in the United States through several regional and national laboratory testing facilities. Although our manual BGM Galectin-3 test is an important element of our commercialization strategy, we believe that automated instrument versions of our test will be required for us to achieve broad customer acceptance and clinical adoption and, as a result, we have partnered with four leading diagnostic instrument manufacturers which are developing automated instrument versions of our galectin-3 test. We expect that, during 2012, the first two of our partners will file for regulatory clearance in the United States and also begin marketing the automated versions of the test in Europe under a CE Mark. Subject to clearance from the FDA, we expect an automated instrument version of this test to be available for commercial use through one or more of these instrument manufacturers during 2013. In December 2011, we filed a 510(k) with the FDA for pre-market clearance of CardioSCORE, a blood test designed to identify individuals at high risk for near-term, significant cardiovascular events, such as heart attack and stroke. Our success in commercializing our galectin-3 test, additional indications for our galectin-3 test, automated versions of our galectin-3 test and, subject to FDA clearance, our CardioSCORE test and any other product candidates that we are able to develop will require that we expand or develop a wide variety of operational functions with which to date we have had little or no experience. We intend to retain worldwide marketing rights to our products, and we will be primarily responsible for spreading awareness, generating demand, increasing market adoption, working with payers to make reimbursement and coverage determinations and ensuring that our biomarker-based tests realize their market potential. To accomplish this, we will need to create a commercial infrastructure that we do not currently have. Sales professionals, including cardiovascular clinical liaisons, with the necessary technical and business qualifications we plan to hire are in high demand, and we may have difficulty hiring or retaining them. The manual version of our test is currently being marketed in the United States through several regional and national laboratory testing facilities. In addition, subject to FDA clearance of the automated versions of our galectin-3 test, we intend to leverage the commercial capabilities of our partners, including diagnostic laboratory instrument manufacturers of automated assays for our tests, such as Abbott, Alere, bioMérieux and Siemens, for promoting the utility of our tests to clinicians, laboratory decision makers, payers, patients and other stakeholders. Moreover, even if we are able to implement this strategy, we will be largely dependent on these third parties for the commercial success of our products. They may not deploy the resources we would like them to, and our revenue would then suffer. In addition, we could become embroiled in disputes with these parties regarding the terms of any agreements, their performance or intellectual property rights. Any dispute could disrupt the sales of our products and adversely affect our reputation and revenue. Our strategy to leverage the expertise, marketing resources and installed base of these potential partners may ultimately fail. If the marketplace does not accept our galectin-3 test, CardioSCORE or any other diagnostic products we might develop, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain and grow our business. Even though we believe our galectin-3 test, CardioSCORE and our other diagnostic product candidates represent promising commercial opportunities, our products may never gain significant acceptance in the marketplace and therefore never generate substantial revenue or profits for us. As is the case with all novel biomarkers, we must establish markets for our diagnostic tests and 23 Table of Contents build those markets through physician education and awareness programs. Publication in peer review journals of results from studies using our products will be an important consideration in the adoption by physicians of our products. The process of publication in leading medical journals is subject to a peer review process. Peer reviewers may not consider the results of our galectin-3 or CardioSCORE studies sufficiently novel or worthy of publication. Failure to have our studies published in peer review journals may adversely affect adoption of our products. Under our collaboration agreements with Abbott, Alere, bioMérieux and Siemens for the commercialization of the automated versions of our galectin-3 test, we bear primary responsibility for validating the clinical utility of our galectin-3 test. We are also responsible for promoting the utility of the galectin-3 biomarker, including developing and executing plans to raise awareness of, and create demand for, our galectin-3 test among clinicians and payers, as well as developing and implementing a reimbursement strategy for our galectin-3 test. We expect to bear the same responsibilities for CardioSCORE, subject to FDA clearance. We have little experience in these types of activities. We may be unable to demonstrate that our galectin-3 test provides incremental benefits over currently available heart failure diagnostic tests sufficient to ensure adoption of our test. Our ability to successfully commercialize the diagnostic products that we may develop will depend on numerous factors, including: Ø whether healthcare providers believe our galectin-3 test, CardioSCORE and any other diagnostic tests that we successfully develop provide sufficient incremental clinical utility; Ø whether the medical community accepts that our diagnostic products have sufficient sensitivity and specificity to be meaningful in patient care and treatment decisions; and Ø whether health insurers, government health programs and other third-party payers will cover and pay for our diagnostic tests and the amount they will reimburse. These factors may present obstacles to commercial acceptance of our diagnostic product candidates. If these obstacles arise, we may need to devote substantial time and money to surmount these obstacles, and we might not be successful. Failure to achieve widespread market acceptance of our diagnostic products would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Health insurers and other third-party payers may decide not to cover our diagnostic products or may provide inadequate reimbursement, which could jeopardize our commercial prospects. In the United States, the regulatory process that allows diagnostic tests to be marketed is independent of any coverage determinations made by third-party payers. For new diagnostic tests, private and government payers decide whether to cover the test, the reimbursement amount for a covered test and the specific conditions for reimbursement. Physicians may order diagnostic tests that are not reimbursed by third-party payers, but coverage determinations and reimbursement levels and conditions are critical to the commercial success of a diagnostic product. Each third-party payer makes its own decision about which tests it will cover and how much it will pay, although many payers will follow the lead of Medicare. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of each of our products to each payer separately, with no assurance that approval will be obtained. If third-party payers decide not to cover our diagnostic tests or if they offer inadequate payment amounts, our ability to generate revenue from our diagnostic tests could be limited. Even if one or more third-party payers decide to reimburse for our tests, a third-party payer may stop or lower payment at any time, which would reduce revenue. We intend to develop a strategy to advocate for desired coverage and payment levels, which will include aligning ourselves with third-party payers to encourage the acceptance of our products. However, we cannot predict whether third-party payers will cover our tests or offer adequate reimbursement. We also cannot predict the timing of such decisions. In addition, physicians or patients may decide not to order our tests if third-party payments are inadequate, especially if ordering the test could result in financial liability for the patient. In the United States, the American Medical Association assigns specific CPT codes, which are a medical nomenclature used to report medical procedures and services under public and private health insurance plans. Once the CPT code is established, the CMS establishes reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules for Medicare, and private payers establish rates and coverage rules independently. We have initiated the process to obtain an analyte-specific CPT code for measuring galectin-3 in plasma or serum. In October 2011, the American Medical Association CPT® Editorial Panel accepted our request to establish a Category 1 code for galectin-3 in the Pathology and laboratory/Chemistry section of CPT. The next step in the CPT code process is establishing the payment level for inclusion in the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule to be issued in October 2012. This fee schedule and the galectin-3 specific CPT code would become effective in 2013. However, we cannot guarantee that our galectin-3 test will be approved for reimbursement by Medicare or other third-party payers. Additionally, any or all of our diagnostic tests developed in the future may not be approved for reimbursement or may be approved at a level that limits our commercial success. 24 Table of Contents In addition, payment for diagnostic tests furnished to Medicare beneficiaries is made based on a fee schedule set by CMS in most instances. In recent years, payments under these fee schedules have decreased and may decrease more, which could jeopardize our commercial prospects. Reimbursement decisions in the European Union and in other jurisdictions outside of the United States vary by country and region and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining adequate reimbursement. We expect to face intense competition, often from companies with greater resources and experience than us. The diagnostics industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. The industry continues to expand and evolve as an increasing number of competitors and potential competitors enter the market. Many of these competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, managerial and research and development resources and experience than we do. Some of these competitors and potential competitors have more experience than we do in the development of diagnostic products, including validation procedures and regulatory matters. In addition, we expect that our diagnostic products, if successfully developed, will compete with product offerings from large and well-established companies that have greater marketing and sales experience and capabilities than we do. We are aware of other diagnostic tests under development, which, if successfully developed and commercialized, would compete with our products. Our competitors, some of whom we collaborate with and will rely on to commercialize our products, may include established diagnostics companies, such as Abbott, Beckman Coulter, Roche Diagnostics, General Electric, Alere, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Mitsubishi, Philips and Siemens. We may also compete with national laboratory services providers with extensive service networks for diagnostic tests, such as LabCorp and Quest Diagnostics, and specialized laboratories, such as Genzyme Genetics and Myriad Genetics. Companies that may compete with us in cardiovascular disease, immune disorders and central nervous system disorders include Athena Diagnostics, Atherotech, Berkeley Heart Lab, Bioreference Lab, Boston Heart Lab, Cleveland Heart Lab, Dako, diaDexus, Liposcience, Rules-Based Medicine and XDx. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may be unable to grow and sustain our revenue. We are dependent on third parties for the patient samples that are essential to our biomarker discovery and diagnostics product development plans. To pursue our biomarker discovery and diagnostics product development program, we will need access, over time, to thousands of patient samples, including blood, blood plasma and serum, urine and other fluids. We do not have direct access to a supply of patient samples. As a result, we have made arrangements with third parties, such as academic medical centers, government programs and payers such as Humana that we believe will give us access to a significant number of patient samples over the coming years. Most of the institutions and physicians from which we obtain biological specimens that we use in our research and validation work are “Covered Entities” under HIPAA. Under this law, these parties may have to obtain proper authorization from their patients for the subsequent use of those samples and associated clinical information. We are not presently a Covered Entity or a Business Associate of a Covered Entity subject to HIPAA; however, we may become a Covered Entity or a Business Associate of a Covered Entity in the future, if we provide clinical laboratory testing services. We may lose access to patient samples provided by such third parties, or have that access limited, because the third parties decrease the number of patient samples they provide, due to changes in privacy laws governing the use and disclosure of medical information or due to changes in the laws restricting our ability to obtain patient samples and associated information. In certain instances, we owe the party providing the samples for our research programs payments which may be related to the sales of products derived from those research programs. In addition, we may be forced to actively pursue patient samples from other sources for the diagnostic testing indications we pursue, which could be expensive and time consuming. If we fail to secure and maintain an adequate supply of patient samples, or if our existing supply arrangements are terminated or result in access to fewer samples than expected, our ability to pursue our biomarker discovery and development efforts may be slowed or halted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers for some of our laboratory instruments and supplies used in biomarker discovery and development and we will rely on third-party suppliers for the commercialization of our products. If any of these supply arrangements are interrupted or terminated, we may not be able to find adequate replacements on a timely basis or at all. We rely on mass spectrometry equipment and other advanced instruments from Applied Biosystems and other vendors to generate the vast majority of data for our biomarker discovery and development projects. In addition, we anticipate that we will rely on Abbott, Alere, bioMérieux, Siemens and other vendors to supply us with laboratory immunochemistry instruments and reagents for the development and future commercialization of the BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, CardioSCORE and future diagnostic product candidates. If we were to lose any of these suppliers or if our suppliers were to become unwilling or unable to provide these materials in required quantities or on our required timelines, we would be required to identify new suppliers with similar instrumentation, reagents and software capable of supporting our discovery and development efforts based on our proprietary technologies, or possibly modify our discovery and development processes and procedures. If supplies for the BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, CardioSCORE or any future diagnostic product candidates are interrupted or terminated, we may need to repeat some or all of our development studies for such products, and we may need to seek a new or amended FDA registration for such products. We may not be able to identify or contract with acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are able to 25 Table of Contents identify other suppliers, there is no guarantee that we would be able to transfer our technologies to new instruments and equipment or substitute reagents or other materials with comparable results or on a timely basis. We may also become involved in disputes with our third-party suppliers or we may become party to disputes between these suppliers and other parties, which could be expensive and time consuming. Delays or difficulties experienced with these third-party suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that impose significant restrictions on our business and financing activities. If we default on our obligations, whether due to events beyond our control or otherwise, the Lenders would have a right to foreclose on substantially all of our assets. A default could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. On February 10, 2012, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement, or the Loan Agreement, with General Electric Capital Corporation and Comerica Bank, or the Lenders. Pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Lenders agreed to extend a term loan of $10.0 million to us and, subject to certain conditions, a second term loan of $5.0 million. As security for our obligations under the Loan Agreement, we granted the Lenders a lien in substantially all of our assets, other than our intellectual property, for which we have provided a negative pledge to the Lenders. The Loan Agreement contains several affirmative and negative covenants that impose significant restrictions on our business and operations. Among others, these covenants limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness; grant liens; merge or consolidate with another entity; dispose of our business or certain assets; change our business; make certain investments or declare dividends; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; encumber our intellectual property; or repurchase stock. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could cause all amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreement to become due and payable immediately and could cause the Lenders to foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness, including our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the Loan Agreement may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities. It may also prevent us from engaging in activities that could be beneficial to our business and our stockholders unless we repay the outstanding debt, which may not be desirable or possible. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. If we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we may be unable to execute our business plan. We expect to continue to incur substantial net losses for at least the next several years. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, combined with the proceeds from our February 2012 term loan of $10.0 million, and assuming funding from the second $5.0 million term loan, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through 2013. If we are not able to draw the second $5.0 million term loan and generate significant revenues from sales of our galectin-3 test and CardioSCORE by the end of 2013, we will need to raise funds to continue our operations. If we incur delays in commercialization of the automated versions of our galectin-3 test or in achieving significant product revenue, or if we encounter other unforeseen adverse business developments, we may exhaust our capital resources prior to this time. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. Financing opportunities may not be available to us, or if available, may not be on favorable terms. The availability of financing opportunities will depend on various factors, such as market conditions and our financial condition and outlook. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we obtain additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms favorable to us, we may be unable to execute our business plan and we may be required to cease or reduce development or commercialization of our product candidates, sell some or all of our technology or assets or merge with another entity. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If the combination of patents, trade secrets and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect our intellectual property proves inadequate, our ability to successfully commercialize our proposed products will be harmed and we may never be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods, discoveries and diagnostic tests that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can seek to prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. We rely on both patents and trade secrets to protect the proprietary aspects of our methods and discoveries. We have a non-exclusive license to practice and commercialize technology covered by one issued U.S. patents that relates to our methods for discovering biomarkers. In addition, as of March 1, 2012, we have three issued U.S. patents and 20 pending patent applications filed either with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or under the PCT and foreign counterparts of certain of these patent applications. A subset of the intellectual property that we own or license relates to our galectin-3 test for heart failure. This intellectual property includes U.S. Patent No. 7,888,137 and 8,084,276, exclusively licensed from ACS Biomarker B.V. and eight corresponding patent applications pending in the U.S. and abroad, as well as issued patents in Europe and Australia, and an allowed patent in Japan. U.S. Patent No. 7,888,137 is scheduled to expire in November 2026 and U.S. Patent No. 8,084,276 is scheduled to expire in September 2024. We own a U.S. and corresponding foreign applications relating to a specific method and kit for detecting galectin-3. Any patent issuing from this U.S. application could expire as early as 2029. In addition, we own five U.S. patent applications filed either with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or under the PCT, and foreign counterpart of these patent applications related to methods for clinical evaluation of subjects and therapies based on galectin-3 measurements. For the diagnostic tests that we develop based on our biomarker discoveries, we expect to rely primarily on patent protection. Several of our owned and licensed patent applications are in an early stage of prosecution, and we cannot assure you that any of the pending patent applications will result in patents being issued. In addition, due to technological changes that may affect our proposed products or judicial interpretation of the scope of our patents, our proposed products might not, now or in the future, be adequately covered by our patents. The patentability of molecular biomarkers and of test methods and products based on biomarkers is well-established in most countries. However, the issue of any patent, including the patents for which we have applied, depends upon a detailed interpretation of the specific patent claims and prior art, and generally is highly uncertain because of the complex legal and factual considerations it involves. In recent years, patentability issues have been the subject of much litigation. For example, on March 20, 2012, the United States Supreme Court rendered its decision in Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc., in which the Court denied patent protection for patent claims covering methods that correlate the concentration of a well-known drug metabolite to the likely harm or ineffectiveness of the drug as a means of determining proper drug dosage. At issue was whether the claimed methods transformed unpatentable laws of nature into patent-eligible applications of those laws of nature. The Court held that the patent claims at issue effectively claim the underlying laws of nature themselves and thus ran afoul of the prohibition on patenting laws of nature, were not patent eligible and therefore, were determined to be invalid. Like other developers of diagnostic products, we are evaluating the Prometheus decision, analyzing how the decision may impact our patents and pending patent applications, and evaluating various patent prosecution strategies. In addition, we are waiting with interest to learn how the lower courts in the United States and the USPTO will apply this decision. The result of the case in the United States, although limited to the patent claims at issue in Prometheus, or other legal developments in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions may preclude or limit the patent protection available for our diagnostic tests and therapeutic methods. The patentability of claims currently pending, the validity and enforceability of issued or to be issued patent claims and the commercial value of our patent rights, therefore, are highly uncertain. In addition, we cannot be certain that we hold the rights to the technology covered by pending patent applications or to other proprietary technology required for us to commercialize our proposed products. Rights in applications filed by us or our licensors may be affected adversely by patent applications filed by others which have not yet been published. For example, because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after this date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. For this and other reasons, we may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity or co-exclusivity. It is also possible that one or more organizations will hold patent rights to which we will need a license. If those organizations refuse to grant us a license to such patent rights on reasonable terms, we will not be able to market our proposed products. If third parties assert that we have infringed their patents and proprietary rights or challenge the validity of our patents and proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our proposed products. Our ability to commercialize our proposed products depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our proposed products without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may allege that our proposed products or our methods or discoveries infringe their intellectual property rights. Numerous U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in fields that relate to our proposed products and our underlying methodologies and discoveries, including patents and patent applications claiming methods for the discovery of biomarkers or biomarker sets and assay systems and methods designed to exploit them clinically in drug discovery efforts or in selection of patients. A third party may sue us for infringing its patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s attention from other aspects of our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. 27 Table of Contents If we are found to infringe upon intellectual property rights of third parties, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some or all of our products, which could limit our ability to generate revenue or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. Moreover, we expect that a number of our collaborations will provide that royalties payable to us for licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts paid by our collaborators to third parties who have competing or superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields, which could result in significant reductions in our revenue from products developed through collaborations. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology, pharmaceutical or diagnostic products companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. While we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the former employer’s intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information. Litigation based on such allegations may be brought against us, and even if we are successful in defending ourselves, we could incur substantial costs and our management could be distracted. If we fail in defending such allegations, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, we may be unable to protect our interests in proprietary technology, processes and know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, including particularly our biomarker discovery methodologies. In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, in particular as we are required to make such information available to a larger pool of people as we seek to expand our discovery and development efforts and commercialize our proposed products. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees and consultants have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent technology, processes and know-how or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary technology, processes and know-how, competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. Several of our collaboration agreements provide for licenses to us of intellectual property or sharing of rights to intellectual property that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional agreements in the future that provide licenses to us of valuable technology. These licenses impose, and future licenses may impose, various commercialization, milestone and other obligations on us, including the obligation to terminate our use of patented subject matter under certain contingencies. If a licensor becomes entitled to, and exercises, termination rights under a license, we would lose valuable rights and our ability to develop our products. We may need to license other intellectual property to commercialize future products. Our business may suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. Risks Related To the Growth of Our Management Team, Workforce, Manufacturing and Facilities Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key employees and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. All of the arrangements with the principal members of our executive and scientific teams may be terminated by us or the employee at any time without notice. The loss of any of these persons’ expertise would be difficult to replace and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business goals. In addition, the loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our scientific staff may impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives by diverting management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, if any. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel and, in the future, sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. We expect to expand our development, clinical research, and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. To accommodate the commercial launch of any diagnostic products that we are able to develop successfully and the demands of being a public company, we expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities, and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. If our sole laboratory facility becomes damaged or inoperable, our ability to pursue our discovery and development efforts may be jeopardized. We currently perform all of our biomarker discovery and development work in our laboratories at our headquarters in Waltham, Massachusetts. At the present time, we do not have redundant laboratory facilities. Our facilities could be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including fire, flooding and power outages, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to perform our biomarker discovery and development work for some period of time. A key component of our discovery engine is our unique access to biological samples, and the resulting data sets and medical histories that form the foundation of our biomarker discovery and clinical validation. Access to suitable samples for discovery or validation is often an important gating factor for our discovery projects. If these biological samples or related data are damaged or compromised, our ability to pursue our discovery and development projects, as well as our reputation, may be jeopardized. In some cases, the samples are unique and irreplaceable. Furthermore, our facilities and the equipment we use to perform our discovery and development work could be costly and time-consuming to repair or replace. Although we maintain insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If the patient samples to which we have obtained access are damaged or we lose operation of our laboratory facilities for any extended period of time, our discovery and development projects could be delayed, and our reputation and relationships with collaborators could be harmed. In order to establish a redundant laboratory facility, if necessary, we would be required to spend considerable time and money securing adequate space, constructing the facility, recruiting and training employees and establishing the additional operational and administrative infrastructure necessary to support a second facility. Failure in our information technology and storage systems could significantly disrupt the operation of our proprietary technology platform and our ability to discover and validate biomarkers, which would adversely impact our development and commercialization efforts. Our ability to execute our business plan depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems, or IT systems, which support our discovery and development platform. Our platform integrates molecular measurement technologies based on specialized mass spectrometry, chromatography, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and multiplexed assay technologies. Due to the sophisticated nature of our proprietary technology platform, we are substantially dependent on our IT systems. IT systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, and in particular to operate our proprietary technology platform, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. 29 Table of Contents We rely on a single third party to manufacture and supply our product candidates. Any problems experienced by this vendor could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of our product candidates to us until this vendor cures the problem or until we locate and qualify an alternative source of supply. The manufacture of our diagnostic product candidates requires specialized equipment and utilizes complicated production processes that would be difficult, time-consuming and costly to duplicate. Corgenix Medical Corporation is currently the third-party manufacturer of our galectin-3 test. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our third-party manufacturer could have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture products on our own and would cause us to seek additional third-party manufacturing contracts, thereby increasing our development and any commercialization costs. We may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed coverage under our manufacturer’s insurance policies. Events beyond our control, such as natural disasters, fire, sabotage or business accidents could have a significant negative impact on our operations by disrupting our product candidate development and commercialization efforts until our third-party manufacturer can repair its facility or put in place third-party contract manufacturers to assume this manufacturing role, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if we are required to change manufacturers for any reason, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer or the reverification of an existing manufacturer could negatively affect our ability to develop product candidates or produce approved products in a timely manner. Any delay or interruption in our clinical studies for the validation and commercialization of our product candidates could negatively affect our business. In pursuing the first path of our commercialization strategy for our BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, we are particularly dependent upon HDL, which was responsible for approximately 86% of our galectin-3 sales in the fourth quarter of 2011. Any disruption in HDL’s operations or problems that otherwise adversely affect our business relationship with HDL could result in a delay or interruption of the galectin-3 testing service. We are pursuing three distinct paths for the commercialization of our diagnostic tests, including sales of manual versions of our tests through laboratory service providers, sales by us through certified clinical laboratories and sales of automated versions of our tests through leading diagnostic instrument manufacturers for use on their instruments. In pursuing the first path of our commercialization strategy for our BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, we are particularly dependent upon HDL, which was responsible for approximately 86% of our galectin-3 sales in the fourth quarter of 2011. In March 2011, we entered into a supply agreement with HDL pursuant to which HDL agreed to make our manual galectin-3 test available to physicians in the United States. Under the agreement, we agreed to provide HDL with certain clinical market development resources, programs and assistance as reasonably requested by HDL, and HDL agreed to perform certain sales, marketing and marketing education activities in support of our galectin-3 test. Accordingly, we may suffer losses as a result of any business interruptions experienced by HDL or if our relationship with HDL is otherwise adversely affected. Any prolonged disruption in HDL’s operations or problem that otherwise undermine our business relationship with HDL could have a significant negative impact on our ability to execute on the first path of our commercialization strategy for galectin-3 in the United States and to increase the sales volume of our galectin-3 test. If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage, and such claims may harm our business in other ways. Our business exposes us to product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of diagnostic products. Although we currently maintain limited product liability insurance, we anticipate needing to secure additional product liability insurance for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We cannot be certain whether we will be able to secure such insurance on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A product liability claim in excess of any insurance coverage we may obtain would have to be paid out of our cash reserves and could harm our business. In addition, any injunction or other restriction on our ability to sell against one of our product candidates could harm our business. If we complete our development of any diagnostic tests, the marketing, sale and use of our tests could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that our product failed to perform as it was designed. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming for us to defend. We cannot provide assurance that our product liability insurance would protect us from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, result in the recall of our product candidates, or cause current collaborators to terminate existing agreements and potential collaborators to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. Our activities involve hazardous materials and may subject us to environmental liability or other costs. Certain activities of our businesses involve the controlled use of limited quantities of hazardous, biological and radioactive materials and may generate biological waste. We and our manufacturers are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and liability for any resultant injury from these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials. In the event of an accident or if we otherwise fail to comply with applicable 30 Table of Contents regulations, we could lose our permits or approvals or be held liable for damages or penalized with fines. Although we currently maintain limited insurance to cover claims related to hazardous materials or environmental liability claims, any claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be required to be paid out of our cash reserves and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. Risks Related To Regulatory Approval and Other Government Regulations Although we recently received FDA clearance for our manual BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, we may not obtain regulatory clearance for the automated version of this test, the second indication of this test, CardioSCORE or for our other diagnostic product candidates when expected, if at all. In the United States, we intend to seek FDA clearance or approval for all of our products prior to their launch for clinical use, whether offered as a diagnostic kit or laboratory service. The FDA process can be lengthy and unpredictable. For example, for our first product, the BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, we initially submitted a 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA in March 2009. Upon review of our 510(k) application, the FDA determined that our device was not substantially equivalent to the legally marketed device to which we claimed substantial equivalence and therefore denied clearance. The FDA indicated that additional clinical and other data were required in support of our filing, and we re-submitted a 510(k) application in December 2009 with additional data. In February 2010, we received a letter from the FDA regarding our 510(k) application that requested additional clinical and statistical information to support our application and, after further contact with the FDA; we submitted our formal response to the FDA letter in August 2010. We received 510(k) clearance from the FDA in November 2010 for a manual version of our BGM Galectin-3 test. Commercial introduction of the automated version of our galectin-3 test and our CardioSCORE product will require FDA clearance or approval. If we submit a 510(k) application for any of our product candidates and the FDA denies our request, we may be required to seek and obtain PMA. The PMA process is more complex, costly and time-consuming than the 510(k) process. A PMA must be supported by more detailed and comprehensive scientific evidence, including clinical data, to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the medical device for its intended purpose. Any material delays in our receipt of regulatory clearance or approval for our automated galectin-3 test and our other product candidates in development, or our failure to obtain such clearances or approvals at all, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To market our products in Europe, we must obtain CE mark and may, in some cases, need marketing approval from the European Medicines Agency. In October 2009, we obtained CE Mark in the European Union for our first product, our galectin-3 test for heart failure. In addition, we have partnered with four leading diagnostic instrument manufacturers which are developing automated instrument versions of our galectin-3 test, and we expect that, during 2012, the first two of our partners will file for regulatory clearance in the United States and also begin marketing the automated versions of the test in Europe under a CE Mark. Changes in regulatory review procedures, approval requirements or enactment of additional regulatory approval requirements may delay or prevent us from marketing our proposed products. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market medical devices, including in vitro diagnostic test kits, from the FDA and similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States can be costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, each regulatory agency may impose its own requirements and may refuse to grant approval or may require additional data before granting marketing approval even if marketing approval has been granted by other agencies. For example, in seeking clearance from the FDA for our galectin-3 test, we relied on samples from previously concluded studies sponsored by other parties to determine the clinical utility of our galectin-3 test, and we may do so for our other product candidates. While the FDA accepted such data in support of our galectin-3 test, and we believe it has accepted such data in other cases, the FDA may require us to conduct our own prospective studies to support future product clearances or approvals, which would make the development and validation of our product candidates more costly and time-consuming. Our CardioSCORE test has not been cleared by the FDA for sale in the United States. We do not currently receive significant revenue from sales of our cardiovascular diagnostic tests, though we anticipate that a substantial portion of any future product revenue will be generated from sales of our cardiovascular diagnostic tests. We are actively marketing and selling our first and only product, the BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, and, to date, we have recognized only a limited amount of revenue from galectin-3 test sales. We are also developing CardioSCORE, a blood test designed to identify individuals at high risk for near-term, significant cardiovascular events, such as heart attack and stroke. We have not obtained FDA clearance for our CardioSCORE test for marketing in the United States. In December 2011, we submitted a 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA in order to obtain regulatory clearance to market our CardioSCORE test in the United States. In February 2012, we received a letter from the FDA regarding our 510(k) notification that requested additional information, including information regarding our clinical validation study and additional analytical study data. We are undertaking activities to respond to the FDA. Our response to the FDA is due no later than mid-August 2012. Based on anticipated future interactions with the FDA regarding the additional information requested, we expect to be able to better assess whether our goal of obtaining FDA clearance by year end is achievable. The FDA may have additional comments on our submission and require that we submit further additional information and data prior to clearing our 510(k) notification. The FDA may not clear our 510(k) notification in a timely manner, or at all, or may determine that our device is not substantially equivalent to the legally marketed device and, in either case, we would not be able to sell our CardioSCORE test in the United States. If the FDA denies our request for 510(k) clearance, we may be required to seek and obtain premarket approval, or PMA. The PMA process is more complex, costly and time-consuming than the 510(k) process. In addition, the FDA may clear our CardioSCORE test for a narrower indication than we are seeking, in which case the market for our test could be significantly reduced. The occurrence of any of these events would adversely affect our commercial opportunity and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our manual BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure and any future products cleared by the FDA will be subject to ongoing regulation by the FDA. Failure to comply with such regulation could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: Ø compliance with QSR; Ø labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on marketing; and 31 Table of Contents Ø medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: Ø warning letters; Ø fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; Ø recall or seizure of our products; Ø operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; Ø refusal to grant 510(k) clearance or PMAs of new products; Ø withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or PMAs that are already granted; and Ø criminal prosecution. Being subject to any of these sanctions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to regulations under additional federal and state laws. If we develop diagnostic tests suitable for commercialization, and after receiving all necessary regulatory clearances and approvals, we will be subject to national, regional and local regulations. For example, in the United States, the regulations which we may be subject to include: Ø the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and its related rules, regulations, guidance documents and other interpretations relating to the manufacture and marketing of medical products; Ø the federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-kickback Law, and state anti-kickback prohibitions; Ø the federal physician self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, and the state equivalents; Ø HIPAA; Ø the various state laws governing patient privacy; and Ø the federal civil and criminal False Claims Act. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. If in the future we decide to operate our own laboratory for our diagnostic tests, we will become subject to the CLIA, a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain CLIA accreditation, or if we do, that we would be able to renew it. If we are unable to obtain CLIA accreditation, we may be limited in our ability to perform testing, which would limit our revenue and harm our business. Any action brought against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we prevail, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, we may be subject to any applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines. We could also be required to refund any improperly received payments, and we could be required to curtail or cease our operations. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents If we or our third-party manufacturer fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulation, the development and manufacture of our products could be delayed or interrupted and our products may be subject to product recalls. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA’s QSR and other regulations which cover, among other things, the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA monitors compliance with QSR through periodic inspections. If the FDA determines that we or our contractors are not in compliance with applicable regulatory standards, we could be prevented or forced to delay the development or manufacture of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any failure to maintain QSR compliance could force us to cease the development or manufacture of our products and subject us to other enforcement sanctions, including withdrawal of our products from the U.S. or foreign markets, and delay or interrupt the development or manufacture of additional products. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent our product candidates’ commercial success. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. Any government-adopted reform measures could adversely impact the pricing of healthcare products, including our diagnostic products, and services in the U.S. or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payers. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payers of healthcare services to contain or reduce healthcare costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices we believe are fair for any diagnostic products we may develop and commercialize. Changes in healthcare policy, such as the creation of broad limits for diagnostic products, could substantially interrupt the sale of future diagnostic tests, increase costs, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for diagnostic products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenue, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging due to several reasons, including policies advanced by the U.S. government, new healthcare legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. Specifically, in both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell any diagnostic products we may develop and commercialize profitably. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our diagnostic products, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. For example, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the PPACA, which may have far reaching consequences for life science companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payers and government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, the creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. Restructuring the coverage of medical care in the United States could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices or our product candidates. If reimbursement for our approved product candidates, if any, is substantially less that we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, certain members of Congress have declared their intentions to effect the repeal of some or all of PPACA, adding further uncertainty to the law’s future impact on us. Further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the PPACA, by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. Risks Related To Our Common Stock The trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on The NASDAQ Global Market. Additionally, the public float of our common stock is approximately 53% of our outstanding shares of common stock, which substantially reduces the liquidity of our common stock and contributes to the limited trading volume for our common stock. Since our initial listing on The NASDAQ Global Market on February 4, 2011, the trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on The NASDAQ Global Market. The quotation of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists. We cannot predict whether a more active market for our common stock will develop in the future. An 33 Table of Contents absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to sell our common stock at current market prices in short time periods, or possibly at all. Additionally, market visibility for our common stock may be limited and such lack of visibility may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. The public float of our common stock is approximately 53% of our outstanding shares of common stock, which adversely affects the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock; in as much as federal securities laws restrict sales of our shares by these stockholders. If our affiliates continue to hold their shares of common stock, there will be limited trading volume in our common stock, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares or increase the volatility of our stock price. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may drop. Prior to our initial public offering in February 2011, there was not a public market for our common stock and having been a publicly traded company for only one year, it is too early to determine whether an active trading market will develop and continue. There is a limited history, exacerbated by low average daily trading volume, on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price. The stock markets and the markets for medical diagnostics and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Some of the many factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: Ø our ability to commercialize the products, if any, that we are able to develop; Ø the progress and results of our biomarker discovery and product candidate development efforts; Ø actions taken by regulatory authorities with respect to our product candidates, or our sales and marketing activities; Ø regulatory developments in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions; Ø the outcome of legal actions to which we may become a party; Ø announcements concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; Ø announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; Ø changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; Ø changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; Ø restatements of our financial results and/or material weaknesses in our internal controls; Ø publication of research reports about us or the diagnostic products industry by securities or industry analysts; Ø fluctuations in our operating results; and Ø deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts or other analyst comments. Any broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may not be able to sell when they desire due to insufficient buyer demand and may realize less than, or lose all of, their investment. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our financial condition, operating results and reputation. Insiders control a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management and/or the board of directors. Certain of our directors, principal stockholders and/or their affiliates, including Flagship Ventures, or Flagship, Gilde Europe Food & Agribusiness B.V., or Gilde, General Electric Pension Trust, or GE, Legg Mason Capital Management Special Investment Trust, Inc., or Legg Mason, SMALLCAP World Fund, Inc., or SMALLCAP and Stelios Papadopoulos control approximately 74% of our outstanding common stock as of March 30, 2012. Accordingly, these stockholders, if acting as a group, or Flagship, which alone controls approximately 33% of our outstanding common stock as of March 30, 2012, will have control or substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, and they may in some instances exercise this control or substantial influence in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control, could deprive you of the opportunity to receive a premium for our common stock as part of a sale and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 34 Table of Contents The requirements of being a public company will require greater resources increase our costs and distract our management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company with equity securities listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we now incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We are required to comply with certain rules, regulations and requirements with which we were not required to comply prior to becoming a public company. Complying with rules, regulations and requirements will require substantial effort on the part of our board of directors and management and will increase our costs and expenses. We will be required to: Ø institute a more formalized function of internal control over financial reporting; Ø prepare and distribute periodic and current public reports; Ø formalize old and establish new internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; Ø involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and Ø establish and maintain an investor relations function, including the provision of certain information on our website. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. The securities laws require, among other things, that we implement and maintain effective internal control for financial reporting and disclosure. In particular, under current regulations, commencing with the year ending December 31, 2011, we began to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management, and for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. We expect to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with these requirements. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with these requirements in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by The NASDAQ Stock Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts who cover us or our industry make unfavorable comments about our market opportunity or product candidates or downgrade our common stock, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the market price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. We may seek the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and collaborative and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, existing stockholders ownership interests will be diluted and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect their rights as a stockholder. Additional debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. 35 Table of Contents Because we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, our stockholders will benefit from their investment in shares only if our common stock appreciates in value. We have not paid dividends to our stockholders since our inception and we are currently prohibited from making any dividend payments under the terms of the Loan Agreement with our Lenders. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current members of our board and management. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our board of directors. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions: Ø allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; Ø establish a classified board of directors, such that not all members of the board of directors may be elected at one time; Ø authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock, the rights of which will be determined at the discretion of the board of directors that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; Ø require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; Ø establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; Ø limit who may call stockholder meetings; and Ø require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights on our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 