risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Any decrease in the demand for data centers, including resulting from a downturn in the technology industry, could materially adversely affect our business. Our portfolio of properties consists entirely of wholesale data centers leased primarily by technology companies. A decline in the technology industry could lead to a decrease in the demand for space in our data centers, which may have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. We are also susceptible to adverse developments in the technology industry such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors. We also may be materially adversely affected by any downturns in the market for data centers due to, among other things, oversupply of or reduced demand for space or a slowdown in web-based commerce. Also, a lack of demand for data center space by enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and business prospects. Our current portfolio of completed operating properties is located entirely in Northern Virginia and suburban Chicago, Illinois, and any adverse developments in the economies of these areas may materially adversely affect our operating results. We are potentially exposed to greater economic risks than if we owned a more geographically diverse portfolio. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the Northern Virginia and Chicago economic and regulatory environment (including, but not limited to, business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation and other factors). Any adverse developments in the economy or real estate market in Northern Virginia or Chicago in general, or any decrease in demand for data center space resulting from the Northern Virginia or Chicago regulatory or business environment, could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations. As of January 1, 2009, our two largest tenants, Microsoft and Yahoo!, collectively accounted for 67.2% of our annualized base rent, and the loss of either tenant or any other significant tenant could have a materially adverse affect on our business. As of January 1, 2009, our two largest tenants, Microsoft and Yahoo!, accounted for 67.2% of our annualized base rent. Our tenants may experience a downturn in their businesses, which may weaken their financial condition and result in their failure to make timely rental payments or their default under their leases. In the event of any tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. This risk would be particularly significant if one of our largest tenants, such as Microsoft and Yahoo!, were to default under its lease. In addition, if one or more of our significant tenants fail to renew their leases with us and we cannot find new tenants to utilize this space at the same rental rates, the expiration of these leases, as well as any future expirations, could have a material adverse affect on our business. 12 Table of Contents Some of our largest tenants may compete with one another in various aspects of their businesses. The competitive pressures on our tenants may have a negative impact on our operations. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant would have a material adverse impact on our business. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may materially adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the federal Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In either case, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. Our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected if any of our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, suffer a downturn in its business, or fail to renew its lease at all or renew on terms less favorable to us than its current terms. Our tenants may choose to develop new data centers or expand their own existing data centers, which could result in the loss of one or more key tenants or reduce demand for our newly developed data centers, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our tenants may choose to develop new data centers or expand any existing data centers of their own in the future. In the event that any of our key tenants were to do so, it could result in a loss of business to us or put pressure on our pricing. If we lose a tenant, there is no assurance that we would be able to replace that tenant at a competitive rate or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Future consolidation in the technology industry could materially adversely affect our revenues by eliminating some of our potential tenants and could make us more dependent on a more limited number of tenants. Mergers or consolidations of technology companies in the future could reduce the number of our tenants and potential tenants. If our tenants merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our tenants, they may discontinue or reduce the use of our data centers in the future. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our data center infrastructure may become obsolete and we may not be able to upgrade our power and cooling systems cost-effectively or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The markets for the data centers we own and operate, as well as the industries in which our tenants operate, are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service introductions, shifting distribution channels and changing tenant demands. Our data center infrastructure may become obsolete due to the development of new systems to deliver power to or eliminate heat from the servers we house. Additionally, our data center infrastructure could become obsolete as a result of the development of new server technology that does not require the levels of critical load and heat removal that our facilities are designed to provide and could be run less expensively on a different platform. In addition, our power and cooling systems are difficult and expensive to upgrade. Accordingly, we may not be able to efficiently upgrade or change these systems to meet new demands without incurring significant costs that we may not be able to pass on to our tenants. The obsolescence of our power and cooling systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our tax protection agreements could limit our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of certain properties. In connection with our formation transactions and IPO in October 2007, we entered into tax protection agreements that provide that if we dispose of any interest in ACC2, ACC3, VA3, VA4 or CH1 in a taxable transaction through 2016, we will indemnify certain investors, including Messrs. du Pont, Fateh and certain directors for their tax liabilities attributable to the built-in gain that exists with respect to such property interest as of the time of our IPO (and tax liabilities incurred as a result of the reimbursement payment) if those tax liabilities exceed a certain amount. Therefore, although it may be in our stockholders’ best interest that we sell one of these properties, it may be economically prohibitive for us to do so because of these obligations. In addition, any such sale must be approved by at least 75% of our disinterested directors. Additionally, the agreement contains various provisions to achieve minimum liability allocations to certain investors and indemnifies them for their tax liabilities resulting from any gain or income recognized due to breach of those provisions by the partnership. The terms of the agreements that govern our indebtedness limit our ability to sell the data center properties that have been pledged as collateral for our indebtedness, which could reduce our liquidity. All of our income producing data center properties—VA3, VA4, ACC2, ACC3, ACC4 and CH1—serve as collateral to either our revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) or our ACC4 credit agreement (the “ACC4 Term Loan”). The agreements that govern these loans limit our ability to sell these properties. Consequently, our ability to raise capital through the disposition of assets is limited. Our properties are not suitable for lease other than as data centers, which could make it difficult to reposition them if we are not able to lease available space. Our data centers are highly specialized real estate containing extensive electrical and mechanical systems that are designed uniquely to run and maintain computer servers. As a result, they are not suited for use by tenants as anything other than as data centers and major renovations and expenditures would be required in order for us to re-lease vacant space for more traditional uses, or for us to sell a property to a buyer for use other than as a data center. The departure of any key personnel, including either Messrs. du Pont or Fateh, who have developed significant relationships with leading technology tenants in the highly specialized data center business, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We depend on the efforts of key personnel, particularly Messrs. du Pont and Fateh, the Executive Chairman of our board of directors and our President and Chief Executive Officer, respectively. In particular, our reputation among and our relationships with our key tenants are the direct result of a significant investment of time and effort by Messrs. du Pont and Fateh to build our credibility in a highly specialized industry. If we lost their services, our business and investment opportunities and our relationships with existing and prospective tenants and industry personnel and our reputation among our key tenants could be diminished, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The other senior members of our executive team also have strong technology development, management and real estate industry reputations, which aid us in identifying acquisition opportunities and negotiating with tenants and build-to-suit prospects. The loss of any of their services could materially adversely affect our results of operations because of diminished relationships with existing and prospective tenants and industry personnel. Our growth depends upon the successful development of our properties and any delays or unexpected costs in such development may delay and materially adversely affected our growth prospects, future operating results and our financial condition. We own certain development projects, including ACC5, NJ1 and SC1, and land held for development, and our future growth depends upon the successful completion of these development projects. As of February 26, 2009, we have temporarily suspended construction of NJ1 and SC1 due to lack of financing for these projects, 14 Table of Contents and, although we have since resumed development, we were required to suspend construction on ACC5 during 2008. With respect to our current and any future developments, we will be subject to certain risks, including risks related to financing, zoning, regulatory approvals, construction costs and delays. In addition, we will be subject to risks and, potentially, unanticipated costs associated with obtaining access to a sufficient amount of power from local utilities, including the need, in some cases, to develop utility substations on our properties in order to accommodate our power needs, constraints on the amount of electricity that a particular locality’s power grid is capable of providing at any given time, and risks associated with the negotiation of long-term power contracts with utility providers. We may not be able to successfully negotiate such contracts on acceptable terms or at all. Any inability to negotiate utility contracts on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms or in volumes sufficient to supply the critical load presently anticipated for each of our development properties would have a material adverse effect on our growth and future results of operations and financial condition. In the past, we have developed properties prior to obtaining commitments from tenants to lease them—known as developing “on speculation,” which involves the risk that we will be unable to attract tenants to the properties we are developing on a timely basis or at all. If our properties remain vacant for a significant amount of time, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Recent disruptions in the financial markets have negatively affected our ability to obtain financing, and may negatively affect our ongoing efforts to secure additional financing for development of our properties and other purposes on reasonable terms, or at all, and have other adverse effects on us. Because our current stabilized operating properties do not generate sufficient cash flows to fund our development, we are dependent on outside sources of capital, on acceptable terms. The credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably or lenders to stop making capital available. These conditions, which have continued into 2009, have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets have negatively impacted, and may negatively affect, our ongoing efforts to secure additional financing for development of our properties and other purposes at reasonable terms, which may have a material adverse affect our business. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. Any losses to our properties which are not covered by insurance, or which exceed our policy coverage limits, would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a blanket policy, which includes coverage for riots, terrorism, acts of God and floods that are subject to policy specifications and insured limits. In addition, some of our policies, like those covering losses due to floods, are subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover potential losses. If we experience a loss which is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. We face significant competition and may be unable to renew existing leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire, which may have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of technology-related real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. If our 15 Table of Contents competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when their leases expire. In addition, some of our tenants, including Microsoft, and Yahoo!, own or may in the future develop their own data centers, which could increase the risk that such tenants fail to renew their leases by, among other things, making it easier for such tenants to transfer their server functions. We may be unable to renew leases or re-lease at net effective rental rates equal to or above the current average net effective rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, or our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space and space for which leases are scheduled to expire, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have significant outstanding indebtedness, which may materially adversely affect our ability to make distributions, expose us to interest rate fluctuations and expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated indebtedness was $666.8 million. We may incur additional debt for various purposes, including, without limitation, to fund future acquisition and development activities and operational needs. Payments of interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties or to make the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT. Our outstanding indebtedness, and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements, could have other significant adverse consequences, including the following: • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; • we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle our lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; • we may default on our obligations, and lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of our rents and leases; and • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on unfavorable terms or in violation of certain covenants that we may be subject to. If any one of these events were to occur, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any foreclosure on our properties could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could materially adversely affect our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code. Our senior secured credit agreements restrict our ability to engage in some business activities, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects, future operating results and financial condition. Our senior secured credit agreements contain customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to make certain investments; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to merge with another company; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to create, incur or assume liens; • restrict our ability to make distributions to our stockholders; and • require us to maintain financial coverage ratios. 16 Table of Contents Specifically, the agreements that govern the Credit Facility and ACC4 Term Loan require that we maintain certain financial ratios. Under the ACC4 credit agreement, one such covenant provides that the total indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries cannot exceed 65% of the value of the assets of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, determined based on the appraised value of stabilized data center properties, the amount of unrestricted cash and the book value of development properties and undeveloped land. Under our Credit Facility, one such covenant provides that the total indebtedness of the borrowers—which include our subsidiaries that own VA3, VA4, ACC2 and ACC3—cannot exceed 65% of the value of the assets of the borrowers, determined based on the appraised value of each of VA3, VA4, ACC2 and ACC3. Under each of the Credit Facility and ACC4 Term Loan, the administrative agent has the right to have each of the data center properties appraised on an annual basis, or more often only if required by regulatory agencies, following an event of default, or if the agent reasonably believes that there is a material change to the market value of any such property. If the total indebtedness of the Operating Partnership or the Credit Facility borrowers, as applicable, exceeded 65% of the applicable asset value, the indebtedness in question would have to be reduced to a level that resulted in compliance with this ratio. Under the Credit Facility, the borrowers are permitted to add to the security package new collateral in the form of income producing data center property acceptable to the administrative agent. Currently, we have no income producing properties not collateralizing one of these loans. As of February 26, 2009, we have not received any such notices. If we do not continue to satisfy these ratios, we will be in default under our credit agreements, which could trigger defaults under our other debt obligations, which in turn could result in the maturities of certain debt obligations being accelerated. Our growth depends on external sources of capital which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In order to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required under the Code to distribute at least 90% of our net taxable income annually, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In addition, we are subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we intend to rely on third-party sources to fund a substantial amount of our future capital needs. We may not be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage, expose us to the risk of default and impose operating restrictions on us. In addition, any stock that we issue in any equity financing could be materially dilutive to the equity interests held by our stockholders. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: • general market conditions; • the market’s perception of our growth potential; • our current debt levels; • our current and expected future earnings; • the occupancy levels and performance of our data center properties; • our cash flow and cash distributions; and • the market price per share of our common stock. If we cannot obtain capital when needed, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt service obligations or make the cash distributions to our stockholders necessary to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT, which would expose us to significant penalties and corporate-level taxation. 17 Table of Contents Mortgage debt obligations expose us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of our investment in a facility or group of facilities subject to mortgage debt. Incurring mortgage and other secured debt obligations (including any increase in the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility) increases our risk of property losses because defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property securing any loans for which we are in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds from the disposition of the properties. As we continue to execute our business plan, we will assume mortgage indebtedness or incur substantial new mortgage indebtedness with respect to properties that we own or in connection with property acquisitions. Any default under any one of our mortgage debt obligations may increase the risk of our default on our other indebtedness. As the present or former owner or operator of real property, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. Under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment, a current or former owner, operator or tenant of real property may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or petroleum products on, under, from or in such property. These costs could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several. Previous owners used some of our properties for industrial and retail purposes (CH1, NJ1, SC1 and ACC7). As a result, those properties may contain some level of environmental contamination. In addition, many of our properties presently contain large underground fuel storage tanks for emergency power, which is critical to our operations. If any of our tanks has a release of fuel to the environment, we would likely have to pay to clean up the contamination. Moreover, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability or materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in material losses. The terms of our loan agreements require us to maintain certain hedges with respect to our variable rate loans to the extent those loans were to exceed 35.0% of our gross asset value. Subject to the REIT qualification requirements, we may also use derivatives to hedge other liabilities of ours. As of December 31, 2008, we have an interest rate swap in place that effectively fixes the interest rate at 6.497% on $200.0 million of our Credit Facility. This and any future hedging transactions expose us to certain risks, including: • losses on a hedge position may reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders and such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments; • counterparties to a hedging arrangement could default on their obligations; and • we may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction or brokerage fees. Although the REIT rules impose certain restrictions on our ability to utilize hedges, swaps, and other types of derivatives to hedge our liabilities, we may use these hedging instruments in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. However, neither our current nor any future hedge may be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position. Our profitability may be materially adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives. 18 Table of Contents Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument lengthens and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risks since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we have entered or may enter into a hedging transaction would most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. It may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover our risk. A liquid secondary market may not exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Failure to abide by applicable service level commitments could subject us to material liability under the terms of our leases, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our leases generally include terms requiring us to meet certain service level commitments in terms of electrical output, cooling levels and levels of redundancy in all key systems. Any failure to meet these commitments, including as a result of mechanical failure, power outage, human error or for other reasons, could subject us to liability under our lease terms, including loss of management fee reimbursements or rent abatement. Any such failures could also materially adversely affect our reputation and adversely impact our ability to lease our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks may arise if we make international investments. We may, in the future, purchase properties located outside the United States. These investments may be affected by factors peculiar to the laws and business practices of the jurisdictions in which the properties are located. These laws may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States. We depend on third parties to provide Internet connectivity to the tenants in our data centers and any delays or disruptions in connectivity may materially adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. We are not a telecommunications carrier. Although our tenants are responsible for providing their own network connectivity, we still depend upon the presence of telecommunications carriers’ fiber networks serving the locations of our data centers in order to attract and retain tenants. We believe that the availability of carrier capacity will directly affect our ability to achieve our projected results. Any carrier may elect not to offer its services within our data centers. Any carrier that has decided to provide Internet connectivity to our data centers may not continue to do so for any period of time. Further, some carriers are experiencing business difficulties or have announced consolidations. As a result, some carriers may be forced to downsize or terminate connectivity within our data centers, which could have an adverse effect on the business of our tenants and, in turn, our own operating results. 19 Table of Contents Our new data centers require construction and operation of a sophisticated redundant fiber network. The construction required to connect multiple carrier facilities to our data centers is complex and involves factors outside of our control, including regulatory requirements and the availability of construction resources. If the establishment of highly diverse Internet connectivity to our data centers does not occur, is materially delayed or is discontinued, or is subject to failure, our operating results and cash flow may be materially adversely affected. Any hardware or fiber failures on this network may result in significant loss of connectivity to our data centers. This could negatively affect our ability to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. The loss of access to key third-party service providers could materially adversely affect our current and any future development projects. Our success depends, to a significant degree, on having timely access to certain key technical personnel who are in limited supply and great demand, such as engineering firms capable of developing our properties. For our current and any future development projects, we will continue to rely on these personnel who have the requisite expertise in the technical environments necessary to develop wholesale data centers. Competition for such technical expertise is intense and we may not always have or retain access to the key third-party service providers that we currently rely on or may rely on in the future. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry and we may not achieve our return objectives. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease our cash available for distribution, as well as the value of our properties. These events include, but are not limited to: • inability to collect rent from tenants; • vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms, including possible market pressures to offer tenants rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options; • adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties, including data centers; • reductions in the level of demand or increase in the supply for data center space; • competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other real estate operating companies, publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; • fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, including data centers, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; • increases in expenses that are not paid for by or cannot be passed on to our tenants, such as the cost of complying with laws, regulations and governmental policies; and • changes in and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders depends on our ability to generate revenues in excess of expenses, scheduled principal payments on debt and capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions generally applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond our control may decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders and the value of our properties. These events include: • local oversupply, increased competition or reduction in demand for technology-related space; • inability to collect rent from tenants; 20 Table of Contents • vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms; • increased operating costs to the extent not paid for by our tenants; • inability to finance development on favorable terms; • costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; • the relative illiquidity of real estate investments, especially the specialized real estate properties that we hold and seek to acquire and develop; and • changing submarket demographics. Illiquidity of real estate investments and the terms of certain of our leases could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio to raise cash in response to adverse changes in the performance of such properties may be limited, thus materially adversely affecting our financial condition. In addition, data centers represent an illiquid part of the overall real estate market. This illiquidity is driven by a number of factors, including the relatively small number of potential purchasers of such data centers—including other data center operators and large corporate users—and the relatively high cost per square foot to develop data centers, which effectively limits a potential buyer’s ability to purchase a data center property with the intention of redeveloping it for an alternative use, such as an office building, or may substantially reduce the price buyers are willing to pay. In addition, the leases for certain of our facilities, including all of VA4 and ACC3 and a portion of ACC4, give the tenants of those facilities a right of first refusal to purchase those properties as well as the property upon which we intend to develop ACC5 if we propose to sell those properties to a third party. In addition, the leases in effect at VA4, ACC3 and ACC2 prohibit us, during the lease terms, from selling those properties to a third party that is a competitor of the tenant. The existence of such restrictions could hinder our ability to promptly sell one or more of these properties, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As the owner of real property, we could become subject to liability for failure to comply with environmental requirements regarding the handling and disposal of regulated substances and wastes or for non-compliance with health and safety requirements. Environmental laws and regulations regarding the handling of regulated substances and wastes apply to our properties, including, in particular, regulations regarding the storage of petroleum for auxiliary or emergency power. The properties in our portfolio are also subject to various federal, state and local health and safety requirements, such as state and local fire requirements. If we or our tenants fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. Moreover, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, cash available for distribution to our stockholders, the per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. Environmental noncompliance liability could also materially adversely affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. As the owner of real property, we could become subject to liability for asbestos-containing building materials in the buildings on our property. Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental laws require that owners or operators of buildings with asbestos-containing building materials properly manage and maintain these 21 Table of Contents materials, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. In addition, these laws may also allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other adverse conditions, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediation. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A number of additional federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with the ADA. If one or more of the properties in our portfolio is not in compliance with the ADA, we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property or properties into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other similar legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, cash available for distribution to our stockholders, the per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. We may incur significant costs complying with other regulations, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. In addition, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, cash available for distribution to our stockholders, the per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future with holders of units of partnership interest in our Operating Partnership, or OP units, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our stockholders. Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and our Operating Partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. Our directors and 22 Table of Contents officers have duties to our Company and our stockholders under applicable Maryland law. At the same time, we, as general partner, have fiduciary duties to our Operating Partnership and to its limited partners under Maryland law. Our duties as general partner to our Operating Partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our Company and our stockholders. The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership provides that for so long as we are the general partner of our Operating Partnership, any conflict that cannot be resolved in a manner not adverse to either our stockholders or the limited partners will be resolved in favor of our stockholders. Additionally, the partnership agreement expressly limits our liability by providing that we and our officers, directors, agents and employees, will not be liable or accountable to our Operating Partnership for losses sustained, liabilities incurred or benefits not derived if we, or such officer, director, agent or employee acted in good faith. In addition, our Operating Partnership is required to indemnify us, and our officers, directors, employees, agents and designees to the extent permitted by applicable law from and against any and all claims arising from operations of our Operating Partnership, unless it is established that (1) the act or omission was committed in bad faith, was fraudulent or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (2) the indemnified party received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the indemnified person had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. The provisions of Maryland law that allow the fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect were it not for the partnership agreement. We are also subject to the following additional conflicts of interest with holders of OP units: We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of the employment agreements with members of our senior management and their affiliates because of our dependence on them and conflicts of interest. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh entered into employment agreements with us, including clauses prohibiting them from competing with us, subject to certain exceptions, in the data center market. None of these agreements were negotiated on an arm’s-length basis. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these employment agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with members of our senior management and their affiliates and because of conflicts of interest with them, including allowing them to devote significant time to non-data center projects outside of our Company, to engage in activities that may compete with us, or to engage in transactions with us without receiving the appropriate board approval. Tax consequences upon sale or refinancing. Sales of properties and repayment of related indebtedness will have different effects on holders of OP units than on our stockholders. The parties that contributed properties to our Operating Partnership may incur tax consequences upon the sale of these properties and on the repayment of related debt which differ from the tax consequences to us and our stockholders. Consequently, these holders of OP units may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any such sale or repayment of debt. While we have exclusive authority under the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership to determine when to refinance or repay debt or whether, when, and on what terms to sell a property, any such decision would require the approval of our board of directors, and our ability to take such actions, to the extent that they may reduce the liabilities of our Operating Partnership, may be limited pursuant to the tax protection agreements that we entered into upon completion of our IPO. Certain of our directors and executive officers could exercise their influence in a manner inconsistent with the interests of some, or a majority, of our stockholders, including in a manner which could delay or prevent completion of a sale of a property or the repayment of indebtedness. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh have the right to hold a significant percentage of our stock. Our charter generally authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person (other than a qualified institutional investor) to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 3.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock by value or by number of shares, 23 Table of Contents whichever is more restrictive and 3.3% of our outstanding capital stock by value. However, our board of directors may grant an exemption from the ownership limits described above if such exemption does not jeopardize our status as a REIT. In addition, our charter provides that Mr. du Pont, certain of his affiliates, family members and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing, may own up to 20.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, and 20.0% of our outstanding capital stock by value, and that Mr. Fateh, certain of his affiliates, family members and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing, may own up to 20.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, and 20.0% of our outstanding capital stock by value. These exemptions from the general ownership limits give Messrs. du Pont and Fateh the ability to own a combined interest in our stock equal to 40.0% of our shares outstanding. In addition, pursuant to their employment agreements, each of Messrs. du Pont and Fateh, as long as he holds at least 9.8% of our outstanding shares on a fully diluted basis, will have a contractual right to be nominated to the board of directors. These exemptions and contractual rights could allow Messrs. du Pont and Fateh to exercise, individually or in concert, a substantial degree of control over our affairs even if they are no longer executive officers. Our senior management team has significant influence over our affairs. As of December 31, 2008, Messrs. du Pont and Fateh, own an aggregate of approximately 0.7% of our common stock and approximately 38.1% of our OP units (not including those units held by us), equal to approximately 18.3% of our common stock, on a fully diluted basis. As a result, our senior management team, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, can have influence over our affairs and could exercise such influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our other stockholders, including by attempting to delay, defer or prevent a change in control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. If our senior management team exercises their redemption rights with respect to their OP units and we issue common stock in exchange thereof, our senior management team’s influence over our affairs would increase substantially. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh have outside business interests that could require time and attention and may interfere with their ability to devote time to our business and affairs. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh own interests in non-data center real estate assets that were not contributed to us in our IPO, including, among other investments, the office building where our corporate headquarters is located, approximately 40 acres of undeveloped land outside of Phoenix, Arizona and an aggregate of approximately 510 acres of undeveloped land in Northern Virginia. The office building is managed by an unaffiliated third party and Messrs. du Pont and Fateh are not currently engaged in any development projects with respect to the undeveloped land. Pursuant to the terms of our employment agreements with Messrs. du Pont and Fateh, each has agreed to devote substantially all of his business attention and time to our affairs. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh have also agreed, for the terms of their employment with us not to sell any of this land to a competitor of our Company, as determined by at least 75% of our independent directors. Any purchase by us of the undeveloped land held by Messrs. du Pont and Fateh would require the approval of at least 75% of our independent directors. In addition, we entered into non-compete agreements with Messrs. du Pont and Fateh upon completion of our IPO pursuant to which each of them have agreed not to compete with us. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements due to our ongoing relationship with Messrs. du Pont and Fateh and, as a result, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our charter and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control transaction, even if such a change in control may be in our stockholders’ interest, and as a result may depress our stock price. Our charter contains a 3.3% ownership limit. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to ensure our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person (other than a qualified institutional investor or an excepted holder) to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 3.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, and 3.3% of our outstanding capital stock by value. This ownership limit may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 24 Table of Contents We could increase the number of authorized shares of stock and issue stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock or the number of authorized shares of stock of any class or series, to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or unclassified shares. Although our board of directors has no such intention at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our Company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have opted out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL by a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. The provisions of our charter on removal of directors and the advance notice provisions of our bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our Company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interest. Likewise, if our Company’s board of directors were to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL or adopt a classified board of directors pursuant to Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL, or if the provision in our bylaws opting out of the control share acquisition provisions of the MGCL were rescinded, these provisions could have similar anti-takeover effects. Further, our partnership agreement provides that we may not engage in any merger, consolidation or other combination with or into another person, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any reclassification or any recapitalization or change in outstanding shares of our common stock, unless in connection with such transaction we obtain the consent of holders of at least 50% of the OP units of our Operating Partnership (not including OP units held by us) and/or certain other conditions are met. 25 Table of Contents Certain provisions in the partnership agreement for our Operating Partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us. Provisions in the partnership agreement for our Operating Partnership may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others: • redemption rights of qualifying parties; • transfer restrictions on our OP units; • our ability, as general partner, in some cases, to amend the partnership agreement without the consent of the limited partners; and • the right of the limited partners to consent to transfers of the general partnership interest and mergers under specified circumstances. Our board of directors has no policy regarding the level of indebtedness that we may incur. Our board of directors has not adopted a policy regarding the maximum level of indebtedness, as a percentage of our market capitalization, that we may incur. Accordingly, we could, without stockholder approval, become more highly leveraged which could result in an increase in our debt service and which could materially adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. Even in the event that our board does adopt a policy regarding maximum indebtedness, our board of directors may alter or eliminate our current investment and financing policies at any time without stockholder approval. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. As permitted by the MGCL, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. In addition, our charter authorizes us to obligate our Company, and our bylaws require us, to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Accordingly, in the event that actions taken in good faith by any of our directors or officers impede the performance of our Company, stockholders’ ability to recover damages from such director or officer will be limited. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. If we fail to maintain proper overall business controls, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, the existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our consolidated financial statements that could require a restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in the market value of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Future offerings of debt or equity securities or preferred stock, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation and for the purpose of distributions, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred stock or common stock. We will be able to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval, unless stockholder approval is required by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which our securities may be listed or traded. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. As data center acquisition or development opportunities arise from time to time, we may issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to raise the capital necessary to finance these acquisitions or developments or may issue common stock or preferred stock or OP units, which are redeemable on a one-to-one basis for our common stock, to acquire such properties. Such issuances could result in dilution of stockholders’ equity. Preferred stock and debt, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend or interest payments that could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering or acquisition will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT Failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock. We intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code. Requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT are extremely complex, however, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our organization and operation will enable us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In addition, new laws, regulations, interpretations, or court decisions subsequent to this offering may change the federal income tax laws or the federal income tax consequences of our qualification and taxation as a REIT. As a result, no assurance can be provided that we will qualify as a REIT or that new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the federal income tax laws with respect to our qualification and taxation as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of our qualification and taxation as a REIT. If we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. The additional tax liability to us for the year or years in which we did not qualify as a REIT would reduce our net earnings available for investment, debt service or distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we failed to qualify as a REIT, non-U.S. stockholders that otherwise might not be subject to federal income tax on the sale of our shares might be subject to federal income tax with respect to any gain on a net basis similar to the 27 Table of Contents taxation of a U.S. stockholder, if the non-U.S. stockholders own 5% or more of any class of our shares. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as ordinary dividend income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, the sources of our income and the diversity of our stock ownership. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding net capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may materially adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Failure to qualify as a domestically-controlled REIT could subject our non-U.S. stockholders to adverse federal income tax consequences. We will be a domestically-controlled REIT if, at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% in value of our shares is held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. stockholders. However, because our shares are publicly traded, we cannot guarantee that we will, in fact, be a domestically-controlled REIT. If we fail to qualify as a domestically-controlled REIT, our non-U.S. stockholders that otherwise would not be subject to federal income tax on the gain attributable to a sale of our shares of common stock would be subject to taxation upon such a sale if either (a) the shares of common stock were not considered to be regularly traded under applicable Treasury Regulations on an established securities market, such as The New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, or (b) the selling non-U.S. stockholder owned, actually or constructively, more than 5% in value of the outstanding shares of common stock being sold during specified testing periods. If gain on the sale or exchange of our shares of common stock was subject to taxation for these reasons, the non-U.S. stockholder would be subject to regular U.S. income tax with respect to any gain on a net basis in a manner similar to the taxation of a taxable U.S. stockholder, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals, and corporate non-U.S. stockholders may be subject to an additional branch profits tax. If the structural components of our properties were not treated as real property for purposes of the REIT qualification requirements, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. A significant portion of the value of our properties is attributable to structural components related to the provision of electricity, heating ventilation and air conditioning, humidification regulation, security and fire protection, and telecommunication services. We have received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) holding, among other things, that our buildings, including the structural components, constitute real property for purposes of the REIT qualification requirements. We are entitled to rely upon that private letter ruling only to the extent that we did not misstate or omit a material fact in the ruling request we submitted to the IRS and that we operate in the future in accordance with the material facts described in that request. Moreover, the IRS, in its sole discretion, may revoke the private letter ruling. If our structural components are determined not to constitute real property for purposes of the REIT qualification requirements, including as a result of our being unable to rely upon the private letter ruling or the IRS revoking that ruling, we would fail to qualify as a REIT, which could have a material adverse impact on the value of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents If our Operating Partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that our Operating Partnership is organized and operated in a manner so as to be treated as a partnership, and not an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is allocated that partner’s share of our Operating Partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge our Operating Partnership’s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our Operating Partnership as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, would cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of our Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of its cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. We will be subject to some taxes even if we qualify as a REIT. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, we will pay tax on certain types of income that we do not distribute. In addition, if assessed, we would incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with our TRS, DF Technical Services LLC, that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. A TRS is a corporation which is owned, directly or indirectly, by us and which, together with us, makes an election to be treated as our TRS. In addition, our TRS is subject to federal income tax as a corporation on its taxable income, if any, which consists of the revenues mainly derived from providing technical services, on a contract basis, to our tenants. The after-tax net income of our TRS is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed. Moreover, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. Changes in taxation of corporate dividends may materially adversely affect the value of our shares. The maximum marginal rate of tax payable by domestic non-corporate taxpayers on dividends received from a regular “C” corporation under current law is 15% through 2010, as opposed to higher ordinary income rates. The reduced tax rate, however, does not apply to distributions paid to taxpayers taxed at individual rates by a REIT on its stock, except for certain limited amounts. Although the earnings of a REIT that are distributed to its stockholders generally remain subject to less federal income taxation than earnings of a non-REIT “C” corporation that are distributed to its stockholders net of corporate-level income tax, legislation that extends the application of the 15% rate to dividends paid after 2010 by “C” corporations could cause taxpayers taxed at individual rates to view the stock of regular “C” corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of a REIT, because the dividends from regular “C” corporations would continue to be taxed at a lower rate while distributions from REITs (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends and qualified dividend income) are generally taxed at the same rate as the taxpayer’s other ordinary income. We will have a reduced carryover tax basis on certain of our assets as a result of the formation transactions, which could reduce our depreciation deductions. All of our operating properties have a carryover tax basis that is lower than the fair market value of the property. This position could give rise to lower depreciation deductions on these assets that would have the effect of (1) increasing the distribution requirement imposed on us, which could materially adversely affect our ability to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, and (2) decreasing the extent to which our distributions are treated as tax-free “return of capital” distributions. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 