D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information included herein as well as the information included in other reports and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission before investing in our securities. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. The trading price of our units, ordinary shares and warrants could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Associated With Our Business We are a newly formed company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a newly formed company with no operating results to date. Therefore, our ability to begin operations is dependent upon obtaining financing through the public offering of our securities and consummating a business combination. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to complete a business combination with one or more unidentified operating businesses, through a capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, or other similar transaction, including obtaining a majority interest through contractual arrangements, that is either located in, selling its products or services in, or otherwise investing in Asia. We will only acquire a business or businesses that, upon completion of our initial business combination, will be our majority-owned subsidiaries and will be neither investment companies nor companies excluded from the definition of investment company by Sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Other than the proposed share exchange with White Energy Company Limited and its affiliates, we do not have any specific business combination under consideration or contemplation. We will not generate any revenues or income (other than interest income, net of taxes, if any, on the proceeds of our offering) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur, or that even if we are successful in consummating a business combination, that our company will operate profitably in the future. If we are forced to dissolve and liquidate before a business combination our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination and are forced to dissolve, liquidate and wind up, there will be no amount payable upon such liquidation with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless. For a more complete discussion of the effects on our shareholders if we are unable to complete a business combination, see the section entitled “Effecting a business combination — Dissolution and liquidation if no business combination.” You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies including the ability to receive all interest earned on the amount held in trust. Since the net proceeds of our offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with White Energy and its affiliates or another target business, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 upon the consummation of our offering and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon consummation of our offering, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as entitlement to all the interest earned on the funds deposited into the trust account. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, a significant amount of the interest earned on the funds deposited in the trust account will be released to us to fund our working capital and will not be available at all to those public shareholders redeeming in connection with a business combination and our units will be immediately tradable. 6 Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, including companies seeking to consummate a business combination with companies in Asia, it may be more difficult for us to do so. Based upon publicly available information, as of January 15, 2008, approximately 145 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings in the United States. Of these companies, only 43 companies have consummated a business combination, while 23 other companies have announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination and seven companies have failed to consummate a business combination and have either returned or announced their intention to return proceeds to their stockholders. Accordingly, there are over 71 blank check companies with more than $11.0 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. Furthermore, there are a number of additional offerings for blank check companies that are still in the registration process but have not completed initial public offerings and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings after the date of this report and prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination within the required time periods. Further, the fact that only 66 of such companies have either consummated a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held blank check companies like ours. We will proceed with a business combination only if public shareholders owning one share less than 35% of the shares sold in our offering exercise their redemption rights, which is a lower threshold than that of a traditional blank check company and will make it easier for us to proceed with a proposed acquisition. We will proceed with the proposed White Energy share exchange only if: (i) a majority of the ordinary shares cast at the meeting are voted in favor of the share exchange, (ii) if public shareholders owning less than 35% of the total number of shares sold in our offering exercise their redemption rights in accordance with the instructions set forth in the proxy materials to be mailed to our shareholders, and (iii) a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares are voted in favor of an amendment to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association to permit our perpetual existence (as further discussed under the heading “Effecting a business combination — Redemption Rights”). Accordingly, public shareholders owning up to one share less than 35% of the total number of shares sold in our offering may exercise their redemption rights and we could still consummate the proposed White Energy share exchange. As a result, this may have the effect of making it more likely that we could consummate the White Energy share exchange or other business combination even when a significant number of public shareholders have voted against such transaction. We have increased the redemption percentage from 20% to one share less than 35% of the total number of shares sold in our offering in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that may otherwise be approved by a large majority of our public shareholders. While there are a few other business combination companies similar to ours which contain redemption provisions greater than 20%, the 20% threshold is customary and standard for offerings similar to ours. We may be required to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. Immediately after our offering and the sale of the insider warrants (including the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option), there were 17,825,000 authorized but unissued ordinary shares available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the underwriters’ unit purchase option) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock were available for issuance. If more than 20% but not more than one share less than 35% of the shares owned by our public shareholders vote against the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination and exercise their redemption rights, we will still be required to utilize 80% of the amount in our trust account for the business combination (excluding deferred underwriting fees). 7 In the past 12 months, and particularly in light of the world-wide economic recession, many hedge funds and other institutional investors who invested in SPACs or business combination companies have not voted in favor of proposed business combinations and sought redemption of their original investments. In order to avoid liquidation and to effect the consummation of the White Energy transaction, we may be required to find buyers for our shares and warrants held by a number of our current public shareholders who will purchase such securities and vote in favor of our proposed transaction, or sell ourselves additional securities and use the proceeds to repurchase shares being redeemed. In such connection, we have engaged the services of Canaccord Capital LLC and Roth Capital Partners LLC to assist us in such financing efforts to the extent required. In addition, if such redemptions leaves us with an insufficient amount of funds to consummate the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination, then we may issue a significant amount of our debt or equity securities to the sellers of such businesses and/or seek to raise additional funds through a private offering of debt or equity securities. Although we have no commitments to purchase our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional ordinary or preferred shares, or a combination of ordinary and preferred shares, to complete the share exchange or other business combination. The issuance of additional ordinary shares or any number of our preferred shares: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in our offering; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. Exercise of redemption rights must be effected pursuant to a specific process which may take time to complete and may result in the expenditure of funds by shareholders seeking redemption. A shareholder requesting redemption of his, her or its ordinary shares for cash may do so at any time after the mailing to our shareholders of the proxy statement and prior to the vote taken with respect to the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination. A shareholder would have from the time we send out our proxy statement through the vote on the share exchange to tender (either electronically or through the delivery of physical stock certificates) such shareholder’s ordinary shares if he, she or it wishes to seek to exercise his, her or its redemption rights. There is a nominal cost associated with the above-referenced tendering process and the act of certificating the shares or delivering them through the DWAC system. The transfer agent will typically charge the tendering broker $35 and it would be up to the broker whether or not to pass this cost on to the redeeming shareholder. There may be additional mailing and other nominal charges depending on the particular process used to tender the ordinary shares. Although we believe the time period, costs and other potential burdens associated with the tendering process are not onerous for an average investor, this process may result in additional burdens for shareholders, including mis-delivery or any other defect in the tendering process. Additionally, if a vote on the proposed White Energy share exchange is held and is not approved, we may continue to try to consummate a business combination with a different target until twenty four months from the date of our prospectus. If the proposed White Energy share exchange is not approved or completed for any reason, public shareholders voting against such transaction who exercised their redemption rights would not be entitled to redeem their ordinary shares into a pro rata share of the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account. In such case, if we have required public shareholders to tender their certificates prior to the meeting, we will promptly return such certificates to the tendering public shareholder. In such case, they would then have to comply with the tendering process again for any vote against a subsequent business combination. 8 The terms on which we may effect a business combination can be expected to become less favorable as we approach our 24 month deadline. Pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we must effect and initiate procedures for our dissolution and liquidation and the distribution of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account, if we do not effect a business combination within 24 months after the completion of our offering since a definitive agreement has been executed with White Energy within 18 months after completion of our offering). We have agreed with the trustee to promptly adopt a plan for the liquidation and distribution of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account, upon expiration of the time periods set forth above. Any entity with which we negotiate, or attempt to negotiate, a business combination, including White Energy and its affiliates, will, in all likelihood, be aware of these time limitations and can be expected to negotiate accordingly. Additionally, as the 18 or 24 month time periods draw closer, we may not have the desired amount of leverage in the event any new information comes to light after entering into the share exchange agreement with White Energy and its affiliates but prior to consummation of the share exchange. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by shareholders from the trust account as part of our dissolution and liquidation may be less than $10.00 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility and other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our shareholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public shareholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the $10.00 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account and net of any amounts released to us as working capital, or to fund costs associated with our automatic dissolution and liquidation if we do not consummate the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination), due to claims of such creditors. Additionally, in the event we do not have sufficient funds available to us to consummate and complete our dissolution and liquidation, our sponsor has agreed that either it or its affiliates will fund all costs associated with our dissolution and liquidation. Based on information we have obtained from such entities and individuals, we currently believe that such entities and individuals are capable of funding both a shortfall in our trust account and the costs associated with our dissolution and liquidation, even though we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you that our sponsor or its affiliates will be able to satisfy those obligations. We believe the likelihood of our sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited and Allius Ltd. having to indemnify the trust account is minimal because we will endeavor to have all vendors and prospective target businesses, as well as other entities, execute agreements with us waiving all right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the trust account. 9 Additionally, if we are forced to declare insolvency or a case for involuntary liquidation is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable Cayman Islands’ insolvency law, and may be included in our estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over claims of our public shareholders. To the extent any such claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to public shareholders the amounts payable to them upon a liquidation of the trust account. Although our disinterested directors will bring claims on our behalf to enforce the joint and several indemnification obligations of our sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited and Allius Ltd., there is no assurance that such claims would be successful, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public shareholders. Our sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited and Allius Ltd. have agreed that they will be jointly and severally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, but only to the extent we have not obtained a valid and enforceable waiver from such parties. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced and our sponsor, Noble and Allius assert that they are unable to satisfy their obligations or that they have no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our disinterested directors will cause us to take legal action against them for specific performance to enforce their indemnification obligations. Our disinterested directors will cause us to take action against our sponsor, Noble and Allius because our board of directors has a fiduciary obligation to bring such claims and our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association require our disinterested directors to bring such claims, if required. However, we can provide no assurance that such claims would be successful. If such claims are not successful, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public shareholders may be reduced and the per share liquidation distribution could be less than the initial $10.00 per share held in the trust account. We will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. It is anticipated that, upon consummation of the proposed White Energy share exchange, White Energy management will become the management of our company and subsidiaries and our current executive officers will resign. In addition, after the closing date White Energy will have the right to appoint four directors (including a Chairman) to our board and our existing shareholders will have the right to appoint two directors to our board. Accordingly, the future success or failure of our company will depend largely upon the efforts of the senior management and board of directors of White Energy. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of White in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting the share exchange, we cannot assure you that our assessment of such management will prove to be correct. Although our current officers and directors intend to resign upon consummation of the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination, under certain circumstances they may receive ongoing compensation following such business combination. Our board of directors and officers will not receive either from our company or the target company any finder’s fee or related payment in connection with a business combination, or condition such business combination upon any or all of them receiving or retaining any position or obtaining any ongoing compensation following the business combination through any employment or consulting agreement or similar arrangement. However, if requested by the shareholders or directors of a prospective target company, including, White Energy, one or more members of our board of directors may remain as a director of or consultant to our company and its subsidiaries following the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination, and in connection therewith, will receive compensation to be negotiated with the board of directors or shareholders of the target company. If we acquire control of a target business in an all-cash transaction, it is more likely that one or more current members of management would remain with us as a director, or in senior management or advisory positions. If a business combination is structured as a merger or exchange of shares, such the proposed White Energy share exchange, whereby the shareholders of the target company were to receive significant ordinary shares in our company in connection with such business combination, it would be less likely that any of our officers or directors will remain with the combined company. If any of our management or board members are retained post-business combination in any directorship or other consulting capacity, it may result in a conflict of interest. 10 Our officers and directors are or may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented to. None of our officers, directors or initial shareholders are currently affiliated with any entity whose primary business focus includes acquisitions in Asia. Each of our officers, directors and initial shareholders have agreed that, until we consummate a business combination or liquidate our trust account, they will not become associated or affiliated with any such competing entity. In addition, such persons have agreed that they will present to our board of directors any acquisition opportunity in Asia they obtain access to and which could reasonably be expected to be valued at 80% or more of the total amount placed in our trust account upon completion of our offering (excluding deferred underwriting fees), and provide us a right of first refusal to consummate such an acquisition. However, there can be no assurance that these agreements will be fully complied with in all instances. One or more of our officers, directors or initial shareholders could breach these agreements by failing to present to our board of directors one or more acquisition opportunities in Asia they obtain access to and which meets the 80% threshold. If we become aware of any such breach, our disinterested directors will cause us to bring a claim against such officer, director or initial shareholders for specific performance or damages incurred by us in connection with any such breach. However, no assurance can be given that we would be successful with respect to any such claims. For a more complete discussion of our management’s affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the sections below entitled “Management — Directors and Executive Officers” and “Management — Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors may have other conflicts of interest. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination, including, the proposed White Energy share exchange. All of our executive officers and directors own ordinary shares which will be released from escrow only if we consummate the share exchange or other business combination and with respect to which they are waiving their redemption and liquidation distribution rights if we liquidate. In addition, immediately prior to the date of our prospectus, our sponsor, which is co-managed and jointly owned by Angela Ho, our former chief executive officer and former chairman of our board of directors, and Noble Investment Fund Limited, purchased for $1.00 each, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 5,725,000 of our ordinary shares, which insider warrants are identical to the warrants in the units being offered by our prospectus, except that (i) subject to limited exception, none of the insider warrants will be transferable or salable until after we complete a business combination; (ii) the warrants are not subject to redemption if held by the initial holders and their permitted assigns; and (iii) the warrants are exercisable on a cashless basis if held by the initial holder or its permitted assigns. Our sponsor and Noble Investment Fund Limited each have a 50% beneficial ownership interest in the insider warrants. Although none of the insider warrants may be sold, assigned or transferred until we complete the White Energy share exchange or other business combination, permitted assigns include (i) the required transfer of 50% of the insider warrants to Noble Investment Fund Limited once we complete a business combination, as partial consideration for, and in reduction of, a $5,725,000 loan to be provided by Noble to enable Ho Capital Management LLC to purchase the insider warrants, or (ii) Angela Ho, a co-manager of Ho Capital Management LLC. If we are forced to liquidate, the insider warrants will become worthless. Accordingly, the financial motivation of our sponsor and our officers and directors to consummate the share exchange or other business combination may affect their judgment in evaluating the merits of one or more prospective targets or result in our overpaying for a specific acquisition candidate. 11 Although we initially focused our efforts on acquiring an operating business in the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries that is located in, invests in, or provides products or services to consumers located in China, we were not limited to a particular industry or area in Asia and have elected to acquire control of a business engaged in the development and production of clean coal technology; an industry that is beyond the expertise of our management. There is no specific timeframe or monetary amount established by management which caused us to abandon our initial focus of acquiring an operating business in the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries that invests in, is located in, or provides products or services to consumers located in China, in favor of other industries or other specified countries in Asia, including, Sydney, Australia-based White Energy. Early in the process of searching for a suitable target business, management intended to concentrate its focus on acquiring an operating business in the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries that invest in, is located in, or provides products or services to consumers located in China. However, we determined to explore a favorable business opportunity in the clean coal upgrading technology sector with White Energy and its affiliates which management determined was in the best interests of our company and shareholders. We concentrated on our primary business and geographic focus during the first year of our business search, and only expanded the scope of our search because we were unable during such year to locate an attractive business combination in the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries that invests in, is located in, or provides products or services to consumers located in China. If a favorable business opportunity presents itself to management in an industry, other than the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries, or in any one or more of the designated countries in Asia, other than China, such industry or area may be outside of management’s expertise. As a result, our ability to assess the growth potential, financial condition, experience and skill of incumbent management, competitive position, regulatory environment and other criteria in evaluating a business opportunity outside our primary business focus or outside of China may be adversely affected by virtue of our limited expertise. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully complete such an acquisition and could result in the liquidation of the trust account and dissolution of our company. For a more detailed discussion of management’s process for searching for and selecting a target business, see “Effecting a business combination — Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination”. Our shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Section 172 of our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provides that we will continue in existence only until eighteen months from the consummation of our offering or until twenty-four months if a letter of intent, an agreement in principle, or a definitive agreement to complete a business combination has been entered into, except if holders of 95% or more of our outstanding ordinary shares approve an extension of such time period. If we have not completed the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination by January 2010, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. At this time, we will become subject to a voluntary liquidation procedure under the Companies Law (2007 Revision) of the Cayman Islands (the “Companies Law”). Our liquidator would give at least 21 days’ notice to creditors of his intention to make a distribution by notifying known creditors (if any) who have not submitted claims and by placing a public advertisement in the Cayman Islands Official Gazette, although in practice this notice requirement need not necessarily delay the distribution of assets if the liquidator is satisfied that no creditors would be adversely affected as a consequence of a distribution before this time period has expired. We anticipate that the trust account should be liquidated shortly following expiration of the 21-day period. As soon as the affairs of our company are fully wound-up, the liquidator must lay his final report and accounts before a final general meeting which must be called by a public notice at least one month before it takes place. After the final meeting, the liquidator must make a return to the registrar confirming the date on which the meeting was held and three months after the date of such filing our company is dissolved. 12 Additionally, in any liquidation proceedings of our company under Cayman Islands’ law, the funds held in our trust account may be included in our estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders. To the extent any such claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders the liquidation amounts payable to them. Furthermore, a liquidator of our company might seek to hold a shareholder liable to contribute to our estate to the extent of distributions received by them pursuant to the dissolution of the trust account beyond the date of dissolution of the trust account. Cayman Islands law does not limit the amount of time available to a liquidator to recover funds for the estate from shareholders that received distributions. Additionally, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our shareholders amounts owed to them by us. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims for having paid public shareholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. If we are unable to consummate the proposed White Energy share exchange or other transaction within the necessary time periods, our purpose and powers will be limited to winding up and ultimately dissolving. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will distribute the amount in our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our automatic dissolution and liquidation. Concurrently, we propose that our liabilities and obligations will be paid from funds not held in trust, although we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. If there are insufficient funds held outside the trust account for such purpose, our sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited and Allius Ltd. have agreed that they will be jointly and severally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. We have not independently verified whether our sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited or Allius Ltd. have sufficient funds to satisfy their respective indemnity obligations and, therefore, we cannot assure you that they would be able to satisfy these obligations. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate the White Energy share exchange or other business combination. Pursuant to, among other documents, our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, if we do not complete the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination within 24 months after the consummation of our offering, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Upon dissolution, we will distribute to all of our public shareholders, in proportion to their respective equity interest, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account (net of taxes payable and that portion of the interest earned previously released to us). Our initial shareholders, as well as our sponsor who purchased insider warrants immediately prior to the date of our prospectus, have waived their rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to their initial shares and the insider warrants will expire worthless upon our liquidation and dissolution. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of our dissolution and liquidation. Our sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited and Allius Ltd. have agreed to indemnify us, jointly and severally, for these expenses to the extent there are insufficient funds available from the proceeds not held in the trust account and interest released to us. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will liquidate the investments constituting the trust account and will turn over the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public shareholders as part of our dissolution and liquidation. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from interest released to us from the trust account if available, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot give you assurances that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. The amounts held in the trust account may be subject to claims by third parties, such as vendors, prospective target business or other entities, if we do not obtain waivers in advance from such third parties prior to such parties providing us with services or entering into arrangements with them. These procedures may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our automatic dissolution and liquidation. 13 We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may elect to redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units, without the prior consent of any third party, at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price thereafter at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. The foregoing does not apply to the warrants included as part of the 5,725,000 insider warrants purchased immediately prior to the date of our prospectus, as such warrants are not subject to redemption while held by the initial holder or any permitted transferee of such initial holder. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants and sell the underlying shares. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrant only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to our ordinary shares underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities law of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants following completion of our offering to the extent required by federal securities law, and we intend to comply with such undertaking, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. The warrants, including the warrants included in the representative’s unit purchase option, may expire unexercised or unredeemed if there is no effective registration statement (as required by federal securities laws). In addition, there are no circumstances under which we will be required to net-cash settle the warrants, including the warrants included in the representative’s unit purchase option, and a purchaser, including the representative upon exercise of the unit purchase option, may pay the full unit purchase price solely for the shares included in the units. Moreover, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the shares underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination. We will pay approximately $50,000 (not including up to $2,000,000 of interest we may earn on funds in the trust account, which we are entitled to receive in order to cover our operating expenses and our costs associated with our dissolution and liquidation if we do not consummate a business combination) from the proceeds of our offering, the sale of the insider warrants and another financings we may consummate, including, but not limited to, up to $1,250,000 of 12% promissory notes to be issued pursuant to our December 2008 Funding Agreement ($500,000 was borrowed under the notes on December 26, 2008), to cover our operating expenses for the next 12 months and to cover the expenses incurred in connection with the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination. This amount is based on management’s estimates of the costs needed to fund our operations for the next 12 months and consummate the business combination. Those estimates may prove inaccurate if we expend a significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of the proposed share exchange or other business combination that is not consummated. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our management or the initial shareholders or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing and our initial shareholders and management are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate prior to consummating the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination. 14 None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company which could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team to identify and complete a business combination using the proceeds of our offering and the sale of the insider warrants. Our management’s lack of experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and force us to dissolve and liquidate the trust account to our public shareholders in an automatic dissolution and liquidation. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate the share exchange or other business combination. For a discussion of potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the section entitled “Management — Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors own 21.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and our Sponsor owns insider warrants which will not participate in the liquidation of the trust account in the event of our automatic dissolution and liquidation; therefore such persons may have a conflict of interest in determining whether White Energy or other target business is appropriate for a business combination. Our officers and directors own 21.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and our sponsor, an entity that is co-managed and jointly owned by Angela Ho, our former chief executive officer and former chairman of the board of directors, and Noble Investment Fund Limited, owns our insider warrants purchased for $5,725,000 immediately prior to the date of our prospectus. Angela Ho and Noble Investment Fund Limited each have a 50% beneficial ownership interest in the insider warrants held in the name of our sponsor. Our officers and directors and our sponsor have waived their right to the liquidation of the trust account in the event of our automatic dissolution and liquidation with respect to those shares upon the liquidation of the trust account to our public shareholders if we are unable to complete the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination. The shares and warrants owned by these persons (including our officers and directors) will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of these officers and directors and our sponsor may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, these officers and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interest. Our initial shareholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount available outside the trust account unless the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination is consummated and therefore they may have a conflict of interest. Our initial shareholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount available outside the trust account, unless the share exchange or other business combination is consummated. The amount of available proceeds is based on management estimates of the capital needed to fund our operations for the next 12 months and to consummate the White Energy share exchange or other business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of the share exchange or other acquisition that is not consummated. The financial interest of such persons could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the shareholders’ best interest. 15 If our ordinary shares become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of less than $5,000,000 and our ordinary shares have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our ordinary shares may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our ordinary shares become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Our proposed initial business combination with White Energy and its affiliates is with a single target business, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Additionally, we may face obstacles to completing simultaneous acquisitions. Our initial business combination (including the proposed White Energy share exchange) must be with a business or businesses with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $3,450,000 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of such acquisition, which amount is required as a condition to the consummation of our initial business combination with White Energy or other target companies. In addition, if more than 20% but not more than one share less than 35% of the shares owned by our public shareholders vote against the share exchange or other business combination and exercise their redemption rights, we will still be required to utilize 80% of the amount in our trust account for the business combination. In the event that such redemption leaves us with an insufficient amount of funds to consummate the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination then, we may issue a significant amount of our debt or equity securities to the sellers of such businesses and/or seek to raise additional funds through a private offering of debt or equity securities. We have not entered into any such fund raising arrangement and have no current intention of doing so (other than the 5,725,000 insider warrants for an aggregate of $5,725,000 and 12% promissory notes under the December 2008 Funding Agreement for an aggregate of $1,250,000, of which $500,000 was borrowed by us as of the date hereof). We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of this and various other factors, including the amount of funds available to consummate a business combination, possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which could include attempting to coordinate the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings with multiple target businesses. In addition, we may not have sufficient management, financial and other resources to effectively investigate the business and affairs of multiple acquisition candidates simultaneously or to negotiate the terms of multiple acquisition agreements at the same time which could result in a failure to properly evaluate multiple acquisitions. Further, we would also be exposed to the risk that conditions to closings with respect to the acquisition of one or more of the target businesses would not be satisfied bringing the fair market value of the initial business combination below the required fair market value of 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $3,450,000 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of the underwriters) threshold. Accordingly, while it is possible we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business, we are more likely to choose a single target business (such as White Energy and its affiliates) if deciding between one target business meeting such 80% threshold and comparable multiple target business candidates collectively meeting the 80% threshold. Consequently, it is probable that, unless the purchase price consists substantially of our equity, we will have the ability to complete only the initial business combination with the proceeds of our offering and the sale of the insider warrants. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: 16 · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. The ability of our shareholders to exercise their redemption rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek shareholder approval of the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination, we will offer each public shareholder the right to have such shareholder’s ordinary shares redeemed for cash if the shareholder votes against the share exchange or other business combination and such business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their redemption rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of a proposed business combination if our board of directors independently determines that the target business has sufficient fair market value. The initial target business that we acquire (including White Energy and its affiliates) must have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $3,450,000 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of such acquisition. There is no limitation on our ability to raise funds privately or through loans that would allow us to acquire a target business or businesses with a fair market value in an amount considerably greater than 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $3,450,000 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of such acquisition. Other than in connection with our 12% promissory notes under the December 2008 Funding Agreement for aggregate proceeds of $1,250,000 ($500,000 of which was loaned to us in December 2008), we have not had any preliminary discussions, or made any agreements or arrangements, with respect to financing arrangements with any third party. The fair market value of White Energy and its affiliates or other target business will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book value, and the price for which comparable businesses have recently been sold. If our board is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria. Since any opinion, if obtained, would merely state that fair market value meets the 80% threshold described above, it is not anticipated that copies of such opinion would be distributed to our shareholders, although copies will be provided to shareholders who request it. If we do obtain the opinion of an investment banking firm, a summary of the opinion will be contained in the proxy statement that will be mailed to shareholders in connection with obtaining approval of the share exchange or other business combination, and the investment banking firm will consent to the inclusion of their report in our proxy statement. In addition, information about how shareholders will be able to obtain a copy of the opinion from us will be contained in the proxy statement. However, we do not anticipate that shareholders will be entitled to rely on any such opinion. If the independent investment banking firm takes the view that shareholders may not rely on the opinion, we will not consider such a view as a factor in deciding which investment banking firm to hire. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of the share exchange or other business combination if our board of directors independently determines that the target business has sufficient fair market value. 17 We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete the share exchange or other business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon the business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our offering, the sale of the insider warrants and the sale of our 12% notes under our December 2008 Funding Agreement will be sufficient to allow us to consummate the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination, we cannot guarantee the amount of capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our offering and the sale of the insider warrants and notes prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting shareholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate the share exchange or other business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate the White Energy or other business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of White Energy and its affiliates or other target business. None of our officers, directors or shareholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our initial shareholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring shareholder vote. Upon consummation of our offering our initial shareholders (including all of our officers and directors) will collectively own approximately 20% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Our officers, directors and initial shareholders, have advised us that that they do not intend to purchase any units in our offering. However, our officers, directors and our initial shareholders, may make any purchases either in the open market, in private placements or other private transactions following the offering, although we are not aware that any of such persons or entities intend to do so. While we cannot be certain of all of the factors that would cause our existing officers, directors or shareholders to purchase our securities, we believe that some of the factors they would consider are: (i) the trading price of our securities, (ii) their aggregate investment in our securities, (iii) whether it appears that a substantial number of public shareholders are voting against the share exchange or other business combination, and (iv) their interest in White Energy, its affiliates or other target business. Any shares acquired by such individuals in our offering or in the aftermarket will be voted in favor of the business combination. Accordingly, any purchase of our shares by our officers and directors, including all of our initial shareholders, in our offering or in the aftermarket could influence the result of a vote submitted to our shareholders in connection with the share exchange or other business combination by making it more likely that such business combination would be approved. Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of shareholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of the share exchange or other business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the share exchange or other business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, initially only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial shareholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial shareholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of the business combination. In addition, our initial shareholders and their affiliates and relatives are not prohibited from purchasing units in our offering or in the open market. If they do, we cannot assure you that our initial shareholders will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with the share exchange or other business combination. 18 Since our initial shareholders will lose their entire investment in us if a business combination is not consummated and may be required to pay costs associated with our liquidation, our initial shareholders may purchase ordinary shares from shareholders who would otherwise choose to vote against the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination or exercise their redemption rights in connection with such business combination. Our initial shareholders own ordinary shares that will be worthless if we do not consummate the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination. In addition, immediately prior to the date of our prospectus, our sponsor purchased warrants exercisable for our ordinary shares (for an aggregate of $5,725,000), which will also be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. Given the interest that our initial shareholders have in a business combination being consummated, it is possible that our initial shareholders will acquire securities from public shareholders (in the open market and/or in privately negotiated transactions) who have elected to redeem their ordinary shares in order to change their vote and insure that the share exchange or other business combination will be approved (which could result in a business combination being approved even if, after the announcement of the business combination, 35% or more of our public shareholders would have elected to exercise their redemption rights, or more than 50% of our public shareholders would have voted against the share exchange or other business combination, but for the purchases made by our initial shareholders). Any privately negotiated transaction with a shareholder would include a contractual acknowledgement that such shareholder, although still the record holder of our ordinary shares is no longer the beneficial owner thereof and therefore agrees to vote such ordinary shares as directed by our initial shareholders. In the event our initial shareholders purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from public shareholders who have already cast votes against the share exchange or other business combination and requested redemption of their shares, such selling shareholders would be required to revoke their prior votes against the business combination and to revoke their prior elections to redeem their shares and to cast new votes in favor of the business combination. The revocation of prior negative votes and substitution therefor of votes in favor of the share exchange or other business combination would have the effect of reducing redemptions and increasing votes in favor of the business combination, thereby making it more likely that the share exchange or other business combination would be approved. We will be dependent upon interest earned on the trust account to fund the consummation of the White Energy share exchange or other business combination. At December 31, 2008, approximately $756,000 of future trust earnings is available for distribution as approximately $1,244,000 has been distributed to working capital. We will be dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account and up to $1,250,000 of our 12% promissory notes, to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to consummate the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination. While we are entitled to a portion of the interest earned on the trust account in excess of the amount necessary to allow for a $10.00 per share liquidation price to our public shareholders for such purpose, if interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to complete a business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our insiders or others or be forced to dissolve, liquidate and wind up. 19 Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with the sale of the 10,000,000 units, we offered and sold, immediately prior to the date of our prospectus to our sponsor, for $1.00 each, warrants to purchase 5,725,000 ordinary shares. In addition, we have sold to the underwriters an option to purchase up to an aggregate of 475,000 units for $12.50 per unit (which includes an aggregate of 475,000 ordinary shares and 475,000 warrants to purchase ordinary shares). To the extent we issue ordinary shares to effect a business combination, including in connection with the proposed White Energy share exchange, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and reduce the value of the ordinary shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate the share exchange or other business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the ordinary shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our initial shareholders (including our sponsor who purchased the insider warrants) exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect the proposed White Energy share exchange or other business combination. Our initial shareholders, including our sponsor purchased insider warrants immediately prior to the date of our prospectus, are entitled to require us to register the resale of their ordinary shares at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow. With respect to the ordinary shares underlying the 5,725,000 insider warrants sold to our sponsor, our sponsor is entitled to require us to register the resale of their ordinary shares upon our announcement of the entering into a definitive agreement to complete a business combination. If such initial shareholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their ordinary shares (including those 5,725,000 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the insider warrants), then there will be an additional 8,225,000 ordinary shares eligible for trading in the public market and we will bear the costs of registering such securities. The presence of this additional number of ordinary shares eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate the share exchange or other business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the shareholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our ordinary shares. A market for our securities has only existed since January 16, 2008; a lack of prior market history about our securities could adversely affect the liquidity and price of such securities. A market for our securities has only existed since January 16, 2008. Therefore, shareholders should be aware that they cannot benefit from information about prior market history as to their decisions to invest which means they are at further risk if they invest. In addition, the price of the securities, after the offering, can vary due to general economic conditions and forecasts, our general business condition and the release of our financial reports. The NYSE Alternext US Exchange may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Although our securities are listed on the NYSE Alternext US Exchange, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain that listing. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the NYSE Alternext US Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. If we are unable to meet those stricter initial listing requirements, our securities would not be listed on the NYSE Alternext US Exchange and might not be listed on any securities exchange. If we are unable to maintain the listing of our securities on the NYSE Alternext US Exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · decreased trading liquidity and a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our ordinary shares are “penny stock,” with the consequences described in “If our ordinary shares become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be greatly reduced”; 20 · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. We may be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, because, following the offering and prior to the consummation of a business combination, we may be viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities (in this case United States government securities as described below) having a value exceeding 40% of our total assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted which, among other problems, may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. Such restrictions include: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. However, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Our offering is not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, our dissolution and return of the funds held in this trust account to our public shareholders as part of our automatic dissolution and liquidation. Notwithstanding our belief that we are not required to comply with the requirements of such act, we may be considered to be an investment company and thus required to comply with such act. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. Since we are not an operating company, the pricing of the units in our offering is relatively arbitrary. Prior to our offering there has been no public market for any of our securities. The public offering price of the units and the terms of the warrants were negotiated between us and Maxim Group LLC. Factors considered in determining the prices and terms of the units, including the ordinary shares and warrants underlying the units, include: · the history and prospects of companies whose principal business is the acquisition of other companies; · prior offerings of those companies; · our prospects for acquiring an operating business at attractive values; · our capital structure; · an assessment of our management and their experience in identifying operating companies; 21 · general conditions of the securities markets at the time of the offering; and · other factors as were deemed relevant However, although these factors were considered, the determination of our offering price is more arbitrary than the pricing of securities for an operating company in a particular industry since the underwriters are unable to compare our financial results and prospects with those of public companies operating in the same industry. The inability of the sellers of companies we may acquire to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us under our acquisition agreements could increase our liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We intend to negotiate as a term of our acquisition agreements that the respective sellers will agree to retain responsibility for and indemnify us against damages resulting from certain third-party claims or other liabilities. However, there may be instances in which we determine to ultimately enter into an acquisition agreement without such seller indemnification obligations, such as in purchases of assets out of bankruptcy or purchases of certain hospitality-related assets. The lack of seller indemnification obligations or the failure of any seller to satisfy its obligations with respect to claims and retained liabilities covered by the acquisition agreements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position because claimants may successfully assert that we are liable for those claims and/or retained liabilities. In addition, we expect that certain obligations of the sellers to indemnify us will terminate upon expiration of the applicable indemnification period and will not cover damages in excess of the applicable coverage limit. The assertion of third-party claims after the expiration of the applicable indemnification period or in excess of the applicable coverage limit or the failure of any seller to satisfy its indemnification obligations with respect to breaches of its representations and warranties, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Risks Related to the Proposed White Energy Acquisition The commercialization of the BCB clean coal upgrading technology is subject to all of the risks and uncertainties inherent in the development of a new technology and product. The commercialization of the BCB clean coal upgrading technology is subject to all of the risks and uncertainties inherent in the development of a new technology and product, including, the inability of the technology to produce lower-cost upgraded coal products, actual costs of construction of coal upgrading facilities exceeding budgeted amounts and delays in construction. Due to these factors, White Energy cannot forecast with any degree of accuracy when or if its will become operationally profitable or, if it achieves such profitability, that White Energy would be able to sustain it. The construction and operation of clean coal facilities is capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance acquisitions and working capital needs. The construction and operation of clean coal facilities is capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance acquisitions and working capital needs. If White Energy finances the purchase of assets or operations through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on White Energy’s assets if its operating revenues after the business combination were insufficient to pay its debt obligations; · acceleration of White Energy’s obligations to repay the indebtedness even if its has made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · White Energy’s immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and 22 · White Energy’s inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting its ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. Competition within the clean coal technology industry is intense and includes numerous, well established competitors. If White Energy is unable to compete effectively, our business would be harmed. Competition in the clean coal technology industry is intense, and White Energy expects competition to increase. Many of White Energy’s competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater name recognition and technical, financial and marketing resources than White Energy has. If White Energy is unable to compete successfully, its business will be harmed and its results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. White Energy cannot assure you that it will have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution and support capabilities to compete successfully. Competitive pressures could adversely affect White Energy in the following ways once commercialization commences, if it commences at all: · reduce demand for White Energy’s products if customers shift their purchasing to competitors; or · cause White Energy to reduce prices on its existing or future offerings and thereby adversely affecting gross margins. Intellectual property infringement claims against White Energy could harm its business. If any claims are brought against White Energy or its customers for intellectual property infringement, whether or not these have merit, White Energy could be required to expend significant resources in defense of such claims. In the event of such an infringement claim, White Energy may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. White Energy may not be successful in developing such alternatives or obtaining such a license on reasonable terms or at all. White Energy’s success is dependent upon its ability to produce upgraded coal products on a large scale commercial basis. If White Energy is unable to produce upgraded coal products on a large scale commercial basis, its business will be harmed. White Energy’s success is dependent upon its ability to produce upgraded coal products on a large scale commercial basis. Although White Energy competes in a highly fragmented market, its ability to increase revenue and achieve profitability depends, in large part, on widespread acceptance of its upgraded coal products by medium-sized and large commercial businesses and White Energy’s ability to provide its customers with upgraded coal products on a large scale commercial basis. White Energy’s efforts to produce upgraded coal products on a large scale commercial basis may not be successful. In particular, because White Energy is a relatively new company with a limited operating history, these target customers may have concerns regarding White Energy’s viability and may prefer to purchase services from one of its larger, more established competitors. If White Energy is unable to produce upgraded coal products on a large scale commercial basis, its business will be harmed. Risks of Doing Business in Australia Any devaluation of the currency used in Australia could negatively impact our target business’ results of operations and could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Because our objective is to acquire control of a target business having its primary operating facilities located in Asia, including Sydney, Australia-based White Energy Company Limited, and because substantially all revenues and income would be received in a foreign currency, i.e., the Australian dollar, the dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, would be adversely affected by reductions in the value of the Australian dollar. The value of the Australian dollar fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in Australia’s political and economic conditions. Any devaluation of such currencies may materially and adversely affect a target business. If the Australian dollar appreciates in value against the dollar prior to the consummation of the White Energy share exchange, the cost of a target business as measured in dollars will increase. 23 Because Australian law will govern almost all of White Energy’s and/or its affiliates’ material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within Australia or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Australian law will govern almost all of White Energy’s and/or its affiliates’ material agreements, some of which may be with Australian governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that White Energy will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of Australia. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in Australia may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. To the extent that our target business’ material agreements are with Australian governmental agencies, we may not be able to enforce or obtain a remedy from such agencies due to sovereign immunity, in which the government is deemed to be immune from civil lawsuit or criminal prosecution. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between Australian dollar and the United States dollar could adversely affect our operating results. The functional currency of our operations in Australia would be the Australian dollar. However, results of our operations are translated at average exchange rates into United States dollars for purposes of reporting results. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Fluctuations may adversely affect the comparability of period-to-period results. Although we may use hedging techniques in the future (which we currently do not use), we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could cause our profits, and therefore our stock prices, to decline. ITEM 