Item 1A. Risk Factors If NPOs do not adopt our solutions, our revenue and operating results will be adversely impacted. Our ability to generate revenue and maintain profitability depends on the adoption of our solutions by NPOs of all sizes. We cannot be certain that the demand of NPOs for solutions such as ours will continue to develop and grow at its historic rates, if at all. We also do not know to what extent NPOs will be successful utilizing our solutions to engage constituents and generate funds. The less they are able to do so, the less revenue we will generate. We initially began our business with one solution and now offer multiple products and services. As we grow, we plan on offering new solutions and services in the future. We cannot be certain that NPOs will elect to use our solutions or want or need the functionality of our new solutions and service offerings. As a result, as NPOs become more comfortable and sophisticated in their use of technology for their constituent relationship needs, we may fail to develop and offer solutions and services that meet NPOs' needs in this area, and our revenue may not grow. Factors that may affect market adoption of our solutions, some of which are beyond our control, include: •reluctance by NPOs to adopt on-demand solutions; •the price and performance of our solutions; •our ability to integrate with other solutions used by NPOs; •the impact of the economic downturn on NPOs, their fundraising and their spending on technology and services; •the purchasing cycles of NPOs; •the level of customization we can offer; •the availability, performance and price of competing products and services, including internally developed solutions and general solutions not designed specifically for NPOs; •the breadth and quality of our service offerings; •the concerns related to security and the reluctance by NPOs to trust third parties to store and manage their internal data; and •any adverse publicity about us, our solutions or the viability, reliability or security of on-demand software solutions generally from third-party reviews, industry analyst reports and adverse statements made by clients and competitors. While no one client accounted for more than 10% of our revenue during the year ended December 31, 2010, our enterprise clients can contribute substantially to our revenue from quarter to quarter. If NPOs, especially enterprise NPOs, do not continue to adopt and renew their subscriptions to our solutions, our revenues will experience volatility and our stock price could fall. 21 Table of Contents Our business depends on our clients' renewing and expanding their subscriptions for our solutions. Any decline in our client renewals and expansions would reduce our revenue. We sell solutions pursuant to agreements that are generally three years in length for Convio Online Marketing and one year in length for Common Ground. Our clients have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after the expiration of their initial subscription period. Our client renewal rates may decline or fluctuate and our client cancellation rates may increase or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the following: •a client switches to a competitor; •a client terminates its agreement with us due to employee turnover in the client organization; •a client is dissatisfied with our agreement terms; •a client encounters financial difficulties; •our solutions do not continue to fit a client's needs as they evolve; and •our client has a poor service experience with our partners or us. If clients do not renew their agreements, our revenue will decline and our operating results will be adversely affected. We seek to grow our business by expanding the products and services our clients buy from us as their needs evolve. However, if our clients fail to buy additional products and services from us, the growth of our business will be harmed. Further, if our clients elect to subscribe to a fewer number of products upon renewal with us, our business will be harmed. Some of our agreements also provide that our clients may terminate their agreements for convenience after a specified period of time. Some of our agreements allow a client to cancel during the first year of such client's initial subscription for our solutions for performance-related reasons. If our clients terminate their agreements with us, our revenue will grow more slowly than expected or even decline, and we may not be able to maintain profitability. Further, if a client seeks to terminate its agreement with us, we may not be successful in enforcing, or we may not elect to enforce, our agreement with the client. We serve a broad range of NPOs, the less established of whom may be subject to a higher rate of insolvency or may have limited durations due to the underlying causes that they support, such as political campaigns. We are generally not able to perform financial due diligence on the creditworthiness of our prospective clients, and we may not accurately predict a client's creditworthiness. As a result, if we are unable to collect from our clients, our revenue and cash flows could be less than what we expect. Our financial results will fluctuate, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our results of operations are difficult to forecast. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in revenue and operating results from quarter to quarter. In particular, our usage revenue is difficult to predict because it is derived from our clients' usage of our solutions for special events such as runs, walks and rides, and we recognize the associated revenue in the period reported and billed to the client. The growth, if any, and amount of usage revenue vary based on the number of events, the percent of funds raised online for these events, the growth and success of events and our signing of new clients for events. These factors are very difficult to predict, and our usage revenue fluctuates significantly as a result. Our usage revenue reflects the general seasonality of special events which are held more often in the spring and fall. Therefore, we recognize a majority of our usage revenue in the second and third 22 Table of Contents quarters. We recognized 62% and 63% of our annual usage revenue in the combined second and third quarters of 2010 and 2009, respectively. Usage revenue in the second and third quarters represented between 20% and 16% of total revenue for those periods in 2010 and 2009, respectively; whereas, usage revenue in the first and fourth quarters represented between 13% and 10% of total revenue for those periods in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Furthermore, although we experience seasonally lower usage revenue from special events during the first and fourth fiscal quarters, our operating expenses experience less of a reduction during those periods. In addition, we experienced seasonality in our sales in the third quarter of 2010 and 2009, and as a result accrued lower commissions during those quarters. Such seasonality causes our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and be difficult to predict. Other reasons for these fluctuations include but are not limited to: •our ability during any period or over time to sell our products and services to existing and new clients and to satisfy our clients' requirements; •the addition or loss of clients, particularly enterprise clients, and our inability to forecast the timing and size of larger deals; •changes in our pricing policies, whether independent or in reaction to a change by our competitors; •client renewal rates and unexpected early contract terminations or concessions; •the impact of general economic conditions on our clients and their ability to pay us in a timely manner; •the changing mix in our client base and revenue per client; •the amount and timing of our sales and marketing expenses, in particular commission and referral payments; •the amount and timing of research and development expenses, in particular the costs to develop internal use software that are capitalized under the applicable accounting guidance; •the impact of significant occurrences, such as natural disasters, on fundraising by NPOs, including those with missions unrelated to these occurrences; •the expansion and increasing complexity of our multiple solutions and our business generally; •the timing of project and milestone achievements under our services arrangements and the related revenue recognition; •the amount and timing of third-party contracting fees; •the impact of any security incidents or service interruptions; •the timing and significance of the introduction of new products and services by us and our competitors; •our regulatory compliance costs; •any impairment of our intangible assets; •any introduction of new accounting rules; and •future costs related to investigations and negotiations of acquisitions of technologies or businesses and, if successful, their integration. We believe that our results of operations, including the levels of our revenue and operating expenses, will vary in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. If our financial results fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our 23 Table of Contents stock price and the value of your investment could decline substantially. You should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of future performance. Our failure to maintain profitability could limit the growth of our business. The first year in which we were profitable was 2010. We had operating losses in each year from our inception in October 1999 until 2010. We expect to incur additional costs and operating expenditures as we further develop and expand our operations. In addition, as a public company, we incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. While our revenue has grown in recent periods and we recently achieved profitability, this growth may not be sustainable, and we may not continue to achieve sufficient revenues to maintain profitability in the future. Our operating expenses, which include sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses, are based on our expectations of future revenue and are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. In addition, we may elect to spend more to grow our business in the future without certainty of near-term returns. Accordingly, we may not maintain profitability, and we may incur losses in the future, which could affect the market price of our common stock or harm our ability to raise additional capital. Many NPOs are price sensitive, and if the prices we charge for our solutions are unacceptable to NPOs, our operating results will be harmed. Many NPOs are price sensitive. As the market for our solutions matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing clients or attract new clients at prices that sustain historical margins. In addition, poor general economic conditions have led to our offering sales promotions and to our clients' renegotiating their pricing and contract terms as well as requesting other concessions, especially during their contract's renewal period. These promotions and concessions can adversely impact our operating results. These conditions can also lead our competitors to aggressively price their product offerings, further intensifying the pricing pressure on our solutions. Furthermore, demand for our more comprehensive and higher-priced solutions may decline. As a result, our revenue, gross margin and operating results may be adversely affected. Because we expense commissions associated with sales of our solutions immediately upon execution of a subscription agreement with a client and generally recognize the revenue associated with such sale over the term of the agreement, our operating income in any period may not be indicative of our financial health and future performance. We expense commissions paid to our sales personnel in the period in which we enter into an agreement for the sale of our solutions. In contrast, we generally recognize the revenue associated with a sale of our solutions ratably over the term of the subscription agreement, which is typically three years for COM and one year for Common Ground. Although we believe increased sales is a positive indicator of the long-term health of our business, increased sales, particularly sales to enterprise clients, would increase our operating expenses and decrease earnings in any particular period. Thus, we may report poor operating results due to higher sales commissions in a period in which we experience strong sales of our solutions. Alternatively, we may report better operating results due to the reduction of sales commissions in a period in which we experience a slowdown in sales. Therefore, you should not rely on our operating income during any one quarter as an indication of our financial health and future performance. 24 Table of Contents Because we generally recognize revenue from sales of our subscription services ratably over the term of our agreements, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize revenue on a subscription basis, meaning we recognize the revenue ratably over the terms of our clients' agreements. We typically do not invoice clients the full contract amount at the time of the execution of an agreement. Rather, we invoice our clients periodically based on our arrangement with each client. We record deferred revenue when we invoice a client and only with respect to the invoiced amount for such period, but we only recognize the corresponding revenue ratably over the term of the agreement. As a result, deferred revenue is not an effective determinant of sales or predictor of revenue in any particular period, and much of the revenue we recognize in any quarter may be from deferred revenue from previous quarters. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not result in a decrease in revenue in such quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. We may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect these reduced revenues. Accordingly, downturns in sales or renewals of our subscription services will adversely impact revenue and operating results on an on-going basis in future periods. We anticipate that our Common Ground application will help us to grow our business, but if NPOs do not adopt Common Ground, the growth in our revenue could be limited and our business harmed. We introduced our Common Ground application in September 2008, targeted primarily at mid-market NPOs. In December 2010, we introduced the Common Ground online fundraising and marketing engine directly integrated with Common Ground and we intend to continue to invest significantly in Common Ground research and development and sales and marketing, especially as we expand Common Ground into the enterprise market. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 365 NPOs had adopted Common Ground. We expect to increase our spending on research and development and sales and marketing to expand the number of Common Ground clients and the revenue we generate from these clients. Common Ground is a new and evolving product, and if NPOs do not continue to adopt Common Ground, then our business will have difficulty growing and will be harmed. We believe Common Ground's acceptance and adoption by NPOs will be dependent upon, among other things, Common Ground's functional breadth, quality, ease of use, performance, reliability, and cost effectiveness. Even if the advantages of Common Ground over legacy solutions are established, we are unable to predict to what extent Common Ground will be adopted in the marketplace. We plan on releasing more functionality for our Common Ground application. The introduction of these new features may replace sales of our Convio Online Marketing solution to the mid-market, thereby offsetting the benefit of a successful feature introduction. This could harm our operating results by decreasing sales of our higher priced solution, exposing us to greater risk of decreased revenues. As we expand Common Ground into the enterprise market, there is no guarantee that the large enterprise NPOs will adopt Common Ground or that the features will prove to be technologically feasible for this market. Failure in this regard may significantly impair our ability to compete effectively and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to sell our solutions to new clients. Any or all of the above occurrences could harm our business and results of operations. We do not have any control over the availability or performance of salesforce.com's Force.com platform, and if we or our clients encounter problems with it, we may be required to replace Force.com with another platform, which would be difficult and costly. Common Ground runs on salesforce.com's Force.com platform, and we do not have any control over the Force.com platform or the prices salesforce.com charges our NPO clients. Salesforce.com may discontinue or modify Force.com. Salesforce.com could also increase its fees or modify its pricing incentives for NPOs. If salesforce.com takes any of these actions, we may suffer lower sales, increased 25 Table of Contents operating costs and loss of revenue from Common Ground until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated. In addition, we do not control the performance of Force.com. If Force.com experiences an outage, Common Ground will not function properly, and our clients may be dissatisfied with our Common Ground application. If salesforce.com has performance or other problems with its Force.com platform, they will reflect poorly on us and the adoption and renewal of our Common Ground application and our business may be harmed. We encounter long sales cycles, particularly for our largest clients, which could have an adverse effect on the size, timing and predictability of our revenue and cash flows. Generally, our sales cycles last between three and nine months, but in the case of enterprise NPOs our sales cycle can last longer. Potential clients, particularly our larger clients, generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available technologies and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them as to the value of our solutions. We may expend significant funds and management resources during a sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. The sales cycle for our solutions is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including: •our clients' budgetary constraints; •the timing of our clients' budget cycles and approval processes; •our competitors' offerings and sales activities; •our clients' willingness to replace their current methods or solutions; •our clients' employee turnover rates; and •our need to educate potential clients about the uses and benefits of our solutions. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or if we experience delays in our sales cycles, the size, timing and predictability of our revenue and cash flows could be harmed. Interruptions, delays or security breaches at third-party datacenters or by our payment processors could impair the delivery of our solutions and harm our reputation and business. We host our solutions and serve all of our clients from two third-party datacenters, one located in Austin, Texas and the other in Sacramento, California. During 2010, we completed the migration of our former GetActive clients to our COM platform and we retired the GetActive platform, which was hosted at the Sacramento facility, in December 2010. Subsequently, we began removing the equipment from this facility as we do not intend to renew or extend the agreement which expires in March 2011. Any interruptions or problems at either datacenter would likely result in significant disruptions in our solutions hosted at such site. We do not control the operation of these datacenters, and each is vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Each datacenter is also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions at each datacenter, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close a datacenter without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems such as work stoppages at a datacenter could result in interruptions or delays in our solutions and our failure to meet our service level commitments to our clients. Neither datacenter is currently configured to provide failover services to the other datacenter in the event services at a facility are interrupted. Each datacenter has no obligation to renew its agreement with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew our agreement with a datacenter on commercially reasonable terms, we may experience costs or downtime in connection with the transfer to a new third-party datacenter. 26 Table of Contents In addition, we rely on third-party providers for payment processing of funds contributed to our clients by their constituents. Such third-party providers have experienced significant downtime in the past due to high transaction volumes and may experience similar downtime in the future. Although substantially all of our subscription agreements do not provide service level commitments relating to payment processing services provided by third parties, any interruptions in our solutions may cause harm to our reputation, cause clients to terminate their subscription agreements and harm our renewal rates. We provide service level commitments to our clients, which could cause us to issue credits for future products and services if the stated service levels are not met for a given period and could significantly harm our reputation and operating results. We provide service level commitments in our subscription agreements. Our transaction volumes are erratic, and our volumes spike significantly during large special events or major occurrences such as natural disasters. High transaction volumes can cause delays in response times. If we are unable to meet stated service level commitments, we may be contractually obligated or choose to provide clients with refunds or credits for future products and services. We may not be able to recover from our third-party datacenters any refunds or credits that we provide to our clients. Our revenue could also be adversely affected if we suffer unscheduled downtime that exceeds the allowed downtimes under our agreements with our clients. Any service outages could harm our reputation, decrease our revenue and increase our operating costs. If we are not able to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing solutions or acceptable new products and services that keep pace with technological developments, we may lose clients or fail to sell our solutions to new clients. We intend to develop or license enhancements to and new features for our solutions to keep pace with rapid technological developments and to improve our solutions. The success of such enhancements, new features and services depends on several factors, including their timely completion, the license on acceptable terms of software from third parties and the introduction and market acceptance of such enhancements, features or services. Failure in this regard may significantly impair our ability to compete effectively and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to sell our solutions to new clients. In addition, because the software underlying our solutions is designed to operate on a variety of network hardware and software platforms using a standard browser, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our solutions to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. We may not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or bringing them to market in a timely manner. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies could increase our research and development expenses. Any failure of our solutions to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our solutions. Our solutions, and in particular our Common Ground application, may contain errors or defects, negatively affecting their adoption which may cause us to lose clients and reimburse fees. Our solutions are novel and complex and, accordingly, may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new enhancements are released. This may result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our new solutions. We have in the past discovered software errors in our solutions and new solutions after their introduction. We have experienced delays in release, lost revenues and customer frustration during the period required to correct these errors. We may in the future discover errors and scalability limitations in new solutions after they become available or be required to compensate customers for such limitations or errors. In addition, our clients may use our 27 Table of Contents solutions in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in our solutions for other clients. Since our clients use our solutions for mission-critical processes, any errors, defects or disruptions in, or other performance problems with, the software underlying our solutions could harm our reputation and may damage our clients' activities. If that occurs, clients could elect not to renew or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales and clients may make claims against us. If our solutions do not scale to accommodate a high volume of traffic and transactions, we may experience client dissatisfaction and fail to grow our revenue. We seek to generate a higher volume of website traffic and other electronic transactions for our clients as part of our product and service offerings. Our transaction volumes are erratic, and our volumes spike significantly during large special events and major occurrences such as natural disasters. In addition, high transaction volumes can cause delays in response times. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our solutions, including our network infrastructure, are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain new clients. Any system interruptions that result in the unavailability or under-performance of our solutions would reduce the volume of traffic and transactions processed on our system for our clients and may also diminish the attractiveness of our solutions to our clients. Furthermore, our inability to add software and hardware or to develop and further upgrade our existing technology or network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic or increased transaction volume may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of client service and impaired quality of the users' experience. We expect to continue to upgrade our solutions, but we may be unable to upgrade and expand our solutions effectively or to integrate efficiently any new technologies with our existing solutions. Any inability to do so would harm our reputation, ability to maintain our client relationships and growth of our business. In addition, most of our subscription agreements provide for higher revenue as the volume of client traffic and transactions increase over the term of the agreement. If we are unable to scale our solutions to effectively accommodate a higher volume of traffic and transactions, we will not be able to realize an increase in our revenue. The market in which we operate is intensely competitive, and our failure to compete successfully would cause our revenue and market share to decline. The market in which we operate is fragmented, competitive and rapidly evolving, and there are limited barriers to entry for some aspects of this market. Competitive pressures can adversely impact our business by limiting the prices we can charge our clients and making the adoption and renewal of our solutions more difficult. With Convio Online Marketing, we compete with several online marketing solutions and a variety of point applications targeted at tasks such as email marketing, content management and fundraising event management. With Common Ground, we compete with generic database providers, as well as industry-specific donor management solutions. Some of our competitors are focused exclusively on the nonprofit industry while others sell to NPOs among a broader set of target industries. Our primary competitors are Blackbaud, Inc., The Sage Group plc and SofterWare, Inc. In addition, we compete with a variety of smaller, private companies, and also with custom web development providers, which provide custom in-house applications. Any of these competitors could take actions that adversely affect our business. Other larger potential competitors, such as Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation and salesforce.com, Inc., could make acquisitions or develop solutions to establish or expand their presence in the nonprofit market. Smaller competitors, such as those providing open source solutions, web development services and content management, email marketing and other point tools, may strengthen their offerings through internal development or acquisitions and enhance their respective ability to compete. Other competitors have established or strengthened cooperative relationships with strategic 28 Table of Contents partners serving the nonprofit market, thereby limiting our ability to promote our solutions and the number of partners available to help market our products and services. These competitive pressures could cause our revenue and market share to decline. If we are not able to manage our anticipated growth effectively, our operating costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. We will need to grow our infrastructure to address potential market opportunities. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We anticipate that further growth will be required to address increases in our client base, as well as our planned expansion into new geographic areas. If we continue to grow our operations, we may not be effective in enlarging our physical facilities and our systems and our procedures or controls may not be adequate to support such expansion or our business generally. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operating costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. We depend on our direct sales force and our partner network for sales and deployments of our solutions and, if we do not attract and retain our sales personnel or maintain our partner relationships, our revenue may not grow and our business could be harmed. We depend primarily on our direct sales force to obtain new clients and to manage our client base. There is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge that sales of our solutions require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of direct sales personnel. We complement our direct sales personnel with a network of partners serving the nonprofit market, including interactive agencies, direct marketing agencies, public affairs firms and complementary technology companies. Our partner network helps us grow our client base and, we believe, enables us to provide more complete solutions for our clients. If our partners fail to increase awareness of our solutions or to assist us in gaining access to decision-makers at NPOs, then we may need to increase our marketing expenses, change our marketing strategy or enter into marketing relationships with different parties, any of which could impair our ability to generate increased revenue. Our typical partner agreement is not exclusive and our partners may choose not to promote sales of our solutions. If we do not maintain and increase our partner relationships, our revenue may not grow and could decline. We also rely on third-party implementation providers whom we recommend to our clients to deploy COM and Common Ground. In the case of Common Ground, to date we have relied primarily on third-party implementation providers to provide deployment services. Any failure to perform, unprofessional conduct, delays or difficulties with the deployment on the part of such third-party implementation providers may require us to perform these services ourselves and may reflect poorly on our reputation and the marketability of our solutions, which could harm our business and results of operations. Our agreements with these third-party implementation providers do not obligate them to continue to deploy our solutions. Our clients either enter into agreements directly with us or alternatively with the third-party implementation providers, so we have limited ability to seek recourse from them if deployment issues arise with clients. We rely on third-party software in our solutions that may be difficult or costly to replace or which could cause errors or failures and harm our reputation. We rely on software licensed from third parties in order to offer our solutions, including database software from Oracle Corporation. The third-party software may not continue to be available on 29 Table of Contents commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any necessary third-party software could result in delays in the provisioning of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our reputation and increase our operating costs. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our solutions which could harm our reputation and be costly to correct. Many of our third-party providers attempt to impose limitations on their liability for errors, defects, or failures in their hardware, software, or services, which we are required to pass through to our clients. Those limitations may or may not be enforceable, and we may have liability to our clients or providers that could harm our reputation and increase our operating costs. If we fail to retain key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel or if newly hired personnel fail to reach productivity as anticipated, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth, our revenue may decrease and our operating costs may increase. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our officers and other key finance, sales and marketing, research and development and professional services staff. In addition, our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract a sufficient number of highly qualified personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, and we might not be successful in attracting and retaining them. The pool of qualified personnel with experience working with or selling to NPOs is limited overall and specifically in Austin, Texas, Washington, D.C. and the San Francisco Bay Area of California, where a significant portion of our operations are located. If we fail to retain key personnel or attract a sufficient number of highly qualified personnel, we may expend more resources in an effort to recruit qualified personnel and our operating costs would increase. In addition, the diversion of management's attention to recruiting efforts may cause our sales and revenue to decrease. Our ability to maintain and expand our finance, sales and marketing, research and development and professional services teams will depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand sales to, and the specific needs of, NPOs. For these reasons, we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications for our business. In addition, it takes time for our new sales and services personnel to become productive, particularly with respect to obtaining and supporting enterprise clients. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or reach productivity slower than anticipated, it would be more difficult for us to sell our solutions and provide services to our clients, and we could experience a shortfall in revenue and may not achieve our planned growth. Various private spam blacklists have in the past reduced, and may in the future reduce, the effectiveness of our solutions and our ability to conduct our business, which may cause demand for our solutions to decline. We depend on email to market to and communicate with our clients, and our clients rely on email to communicate with their constituents. Various private entities attempt to limit the use of email for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that exceed current legal requirements in the United States and classify certain email solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain "blacklists" of companies and individuals, and the websites, Internet service providers and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to those standards of conduct or practices for commercial email solicitations that the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate. If a company's Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, emails sent from those addresses may be blocked by servers that receive or route email and subscribe to the blacklisting entity's service or purchase its blacklist. Any blocking of email communications generated by clients using our solutions 30 Table of Contents will reduce the effectiveness of our solutions and our ability to conduct our business, which may cause demand for our solutions to decline and increase non-renewals. Government regulation could increase our compliance expenses, subject us to fines or penalties of non-compliance or adversely affect the marketability of our solutions. We are subject not only to laws and regulations applicable to businesses generally, but also to laws and regulations directly applicable to electronic commerce and fundraising activities. In addition, our clients are subject to United States and foreign laws and regulations governing the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from individuals, which restrict how our clients use our solutions. There are many laws and regulations related to electronic commerce and online fundraising, and state, federal and foreign governments may adopt or enforce additional laws and regulations applicable to our business and to our clients' use of our solutions. If the burdens or costs of our clients' compliance with additional regulations increase, NPOs may decide not to use our solutions. Further, our failure to comply with any such laws or regulations could subject us to fines, penalties or other damages that could harm our reputation and increase our operating costs. The promulgation, amendment or enforcement of any laws or regulations in the following areas could increase our compliance expenses: •charitable fundraising and related services; •campaign finance; •user privacy and notification statutes; •the transmission and storage of personal data; •the tax exempt status of NPOs; •the Internet; •the pricing and taxation of products and services offered over the Internet; •money laundering; •transactions or sales to terrorist organizations or to nations which sponsor terrorist activities; •the content of websites; •patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other areas of intellectual property; •consumer protection, including the potential application of "do not call" registry requirements on our clients; •freedom of speech and expression; •the online distribution of specific material or content over the Internet; •the characteristics and quality of products and services offered over the Internet; and •federal, state or local taxation, particularly with respect to charitable giving, research and development activities, employee compensation and other activities generally pertaining to our business. We are also subject to certain state registration and periodic filing requirements related to companies that provide fundraising consulting services. States' regulations vary and the application of these regulations to our business is unclear. Our clients rely in part on our registrations in states that require registration to conduct our clients' national fundraising campaigns. As of December 31, 2010, we were registered in each of the 24 states that require registration. If we fail to comply with any of 31 Table of Contents these regulations, our registrations could be revoked or we may be prevented from registering, and our clients could terminate their agreements with us if we do not meet their fundraising needs in those states. In addition, we could incur fines, penalties or other damages that could harm our reputation and increase our operating costs, and we may be obligated to file client agreements that may disclose competitively sensitive information. Furthermore, the states in which we are registered may impose new requirements and additional states may adopt registration requirements that may increase our compliance expenses. Evolving privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our solutions, which could reduce overall demand for our solutions and increase operating costs. Our clients can use our solutions to store personal or identifying information regarding their constituents. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and other individuals. For instance, as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Congress passed the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HI-TECH Act. The HI-TECH Act expands the reach of data privacy and security requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, to service providers. HIPAA and associated United States Department of Health and Human Services regulations permit our clients in the healthcare industry to use certain demographic protected health information (such as name, email or physical address and dates of service) for fundraising purposes and to disclose that subset of protected health information to their service providers for fundraising. We may be included in this service provider group under the revised HIPAA regulations by virtue of our service provider relationship with our clients in the healthcare industry. In general, we are seeking to prohibit contractually our healthcare industry clients from uploading other types of health information of their clients into our systems because HIPAA does not permit this information to be used for fundraising without certain permissions, but we believe that monitoring our healthcare clients' compliance with such prohibitions is not legally required of service providers and would be cost prohibitive. The law and regulations under HI-TECH are new and still subject to change or interpretation by legal authorities who could cause additional compliance burdens. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, HIPAA, the HI-TECH Act and such other laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our clients may limit the use and adoption of our solutions, reduce overall demand for our solutions and increase our operating costs, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our clients in the form of increased fees. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and other industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. If regulatory burdens related to collection and use of personal information increase, our solutions would be less effective, which may reduce demand for our solutions and harm our business. United States federal legislation entitled Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 imposes certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails, which could minimize the effectiveness of our email product and establishes financial penalties for non-compliance, which could increase the costs of our business. In December 2003, Congress enacted Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or the CAN-SPAM Act, which establishes civil penalties for failure to meet certain requirements for commercial email messages (which may include email messages sent by NPOs that advertise a commercial product or service) and specifies criminal and civil penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source, transmission path or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of 32 Table of Contents commercial emails to identify their recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, some states have passed laws regulating commercial email practices that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act. For example, Utah and Michigan have enacted do-not-email registries listing minors who do not wish to receive unsolicited commercial email that markets certain covered content, such as products that minors are prohibited from purchasing. Some portions of these state laws may not be preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act. The ability of our clients' constituents to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our email product. Moreover, non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act can involve significant financial penalties. In addition, European Union member state laws typically prohibit sending promotional email messages outside of an established business relationship with the recipient unless the recipient has opted into receipt of such messages and require honoring opt-out requests by recipients. Such laws largely prevent the use of email to new prospects in the European Union, and similar laws have been adopted in some countries. Although our agreements prohibit violations of these laws, if we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or European Union or foreign laws regulating the distribution of commercial email, whether as a result of violations by our clients or if we were deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements by the future interpretation of such laws by a court of law or regulatory agency, we could be required to pay penalties or we may be required to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, which could impair our ability to attract and retain clients or increase our operating costs. We may be subject to legal costs and liabilities for content and activities of our clients and their constituents, which could harm our reputation and increase our operating costs. We host content provided by our clients and their constituents and provide products and services that enable them to exchange information, conduct business and engage in various online activities. From time to time, we are requested to provide information or otherwise become involved in legal and other matters involving our clients' online activities. While we require our clients to agree to comply with acceptable usage policies and other content restrictions, clients and their constituents may provide content or undertake activities that could require us to conduct investigations or defend claims by private persons and entities or governmental entities that may be with or without merit and may subject us to legal costs and liabilities to our third-party suppliers and others, which could harm our reputation and increase our operating costs. If existing clients and prospective clients refuse to adopt or renew our solutions, or we choose not to engage a prospective client, because of conflicts over ideological missions, our revenue will not grow at our anticipated rate. Our clients have a wide range of ideological missions. Many NPOs focus upon and support ideological causes that may conflict with the ideological causes of our other clients. A few prospective clients in the past have hesitated or refused to use our solutions because of our relationship with NPOs with ideologies that directly conflict with the ideologies of such prospective clients. If the number of our clients grows, the potential for such conflict will increase. We have adopted a policy of working with NPOs supporting a wide range of ideological missions other than those that promote violence, hatred, or racial or religious intolerance. We will exercise our judgment in determining whether an organization violates the spirit of these client engagement principles. Based on these principles, we have and may continue in the future to choose not to engage prospective client NPOs. If our prospective clients refuse to adopt our solutions, if we choose not to engage a prospective client, or if our existing clients do not renew or otherwise terminate their use of our solutions due to such conflicts, our revenue may be adversely affected and our reputation may be harmed. 33 Table of Contents Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and harm our operating results. A change in accounting standards or practices could harm our operating results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may harm our operating results or the way we conduct our business. We may incur significant expenses to defend against or settle claims that we infringe upon third parties' intellectual property rights. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the software industry. We expect that our solutions may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products and services in different industry segments overlaps. We have encountered and may encounter in the future disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. In the past, we have been involved in litigation with Kintera, Inc., which was acquired by Blackbaud, Inc. Third parties may seek to bring claims against us in the future. Such claims may be with or without merit. Any litigation to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Furthermore, a party making such a claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our solutions. Our operating costs may increase or our revenue may decline if any of these events occurred. In addition, we generally indemnify our clients against certain claims that our solutions infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our clients against infringement claims and paying any resulting damage awards or settlements. In the event of a claim of infringement, we and our clients might be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We, or our clients, might be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost, if at all. We, or our clients, might become subject to an injunction that prevents use of the allegedly infringing technology. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our clients, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management attention and financial resources. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our solutions to our clients and may require that we procure or develop a substitute solution that does not infringe. For any intellectual property rights claim against us or our clients, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party's rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, may significantly increase our operating expenses or may require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. Defense of any lawsuit, the cost of any damages or settlements, failure to obtain any such required licenses or issuance of an injunction would increase our operating costs and may reduce our revenue. If the security of the software or systems underlying our solutions is breached, our reputation could be harmed and our operating costs could increase. Fundamental to the use of our products and services is the secure collection, storage and transmission of constituent information. Unauthorized third parties have periodically attempted to attack our system, and we have had security breaches in the past. We regularly upgrade our security technologies, policies and programs. However, we expect third parties to continue to attempt to attack our system in the future with increasing sophistication. If a third party breaches our security, that of 34 Table of Contents our clients or that of our third-party datacenters and payment processing partners, our business could be harmed. It could result in misappropriation of proprietary information or interruptions in operations. We might be liable to our clients or their constituents for damages from breaches of security, and clients could seek to terminate their agreements with us. A breach could also harm our reputation and increase our operating costs, particularly any breach resulting in the imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage. We might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to notify and communicate with state and federal regulatory agencies and affected clients and their constituents, provide credit monitoring or other protections, protect further against security breaches or to rectify problems caused by any security breach. Any of these results would be harmful to our business. We rely upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights, which might not provide us with adequate protection, and we may therefore be unable to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights. We might not be successful in protecting our proprietary technology, and our proprietary rights might not provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements, each of which affords only limited protection. We have no patents on our proprietary technology and, accordingly, have no way to exclude others from practicing inventions relating to similar technologies, unless wrongfully misappropriated from us in violation of trade secret law or any non-disclosure agreements. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our ability to compete effectively, which would reduce our revenue. Such harm includes but is not limited to the following: •without any patents of our own to counter assert, there is a greater risk that current and future competitors who may have patented similar technologies that cover our products and services would seek damages and a prohibition on the use and sale of such products and services; •our trademarks may not be protected in those jurisdictions in which such trademarks have not been registered, and in such jurisdictions others may be able to use confusingly similar marks or prevent our use of such trademarks; and •current and future competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate our solutions. Despite the measures taken by us, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology and information without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of our solutions is difficult, and litigation could become necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any litigation could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or resolve and could result in substantial diversion of management attention and resources. We use open source software in the software underlying our solutions that may subject our software to general release or require us to re-engineer such solutions, which could reduce our revenue or increase our operating costs. We use open source software in the software underlying our solutions and plan to use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights resulting from our use of open source software in accordance with the terms of the license under which we received such open source software. Use and distribution of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections 35 Table of Contents regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use, modification and distribution. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software and license such proprietary software under the terms of the open source license for free or for a nominal fee. Open source license terms may be ambiguous and many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software or failed to comply with the terms of the open source licenses, in addition to the potential that we license modifications or derivative works we create under open source license terms, we may be subject to suits by licensors claiming infringement of intellectual property rights related to such open source software and required to re-engineer our software underlying our solution, discontinue the sale of our solutions in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts or be subject to an injunction or damage award or settlement, any of which could reduce our revenue or increase our operating costs. If we are not able to integrate StrategicOne or any future acquisitions successfully, our operating results and prospects could be harmed. In January 2011, we acquired substantially all of the assets of StrategicOne and have begun to integrate its operations. In the future we may pursue additional acquisitions of businesses to complement our existing business. We cannot assure you that our acquisition of StrategicOne, or that any acquisition we make in the future, will provide us with the benefits we anticipated in entering into the transaction. Our acquisition of StrategicOne is, and any acquisitions we do in the future will be, accompanied by a number of risks, including: •difficulties in retaining key employees and clients and in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; •difficulties in maintaining acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; •potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management; •inability to maintain relationships with clients of the acquired business; •impairment of relationships with employees and clients as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; •difficulties in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; •unexpected expenses resulting from the acquisition; •potential intellectual property or other litigation if we do not consummate an acquisition; and •potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, restructuring charges and write-offs, such as write-offs of acquired in-process research and development. We also may not be able to recognize as revenue the deferred revenue of an acquired company. Acquisitions may result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Furthermore, if we finance future acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities our existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. To the extent we finance 36 Table of Contents future acquisitions with debt, such debt could include financial or operational covenants that restrict our business operations. We may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Those negotiations could result in diversion of management time and significant out-of-pocket costs. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions successfully, we may not be able to realize the benefits of these acquisitions, and our operating results could be harmed. If we expand our operations outside of the United States, our expansion may subject us to risks that may increase our operating costs. An element of our growth strategy is to expand our international operations and develop a worldwide client base. To date, we have not realized a material portion of our revenue from clients outside the United States. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. Because of our limited experience with international operations, we cannot assure you that our international expansion efforts will be successful. In addition, we will face risks in doing business internationally that could increase our operating costs, including: •economic conditions in various parts of the world; •unexpected and more restrictive laws and regulations, including those laws governing Internet activities, email messaging, collection and use of personal information, ownership of intellectual property, solicitation of charitable contributions and other activities important to our online business practices; •new and different sources of competition; •multiple, conflicting and changing tax laws and regulations that may affect both our international and domestic tax liabilities and result in increased complexity and costs; •if we were to establish international offices, the difficulty of managing and staffing such international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; •the need to make capital expenditures in foreign jurisdictions; •difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, especially in developing countries; •if contracts become denominated in local currency, fluctuations in exchange rates; and •tariffs and trade barriers, import/export controls and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets. If we decide to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with future international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could increase our operating costs. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We intend to continue to make investments to support our growth and believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and our cash flow from future operating activities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next twelve months. We may, however, require additional capital from equity or debt financings in the future to fund our operations or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. In addition, we may require additional financing to fund the purchase price 37 Table of Contents of future acquisitions. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute your percentage ownership of our common stock. Furthermore, any new debt or equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to our common stock. Capital raised through debt financings could require us to make periodic interest payments and could impose potentially restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives, which will increase our operating costs. As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the NASDAQ Listing Rules, impose additional requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. For example, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantial additional costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. In addition, United States securities laws require, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for the year ending December 31, 2011, we will be required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline, and we could be subject to potential delisting by the NASDAQ Global Market and review by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities which would require additional financial and management resources. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. An active public market for our shares may not continue to develop or be sustained. Shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering on April 29, 2010 at a price of $9.00 per share, and our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $11.24 and as low as $6.90. The trading price of our common stock could be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in 38 Table of Contents response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: •variations in our quarterly and annual operating results; •announcements of technological innovations, new products, services or enhancements, strategic alliances or agreements by us or by our competitors; •the gain or loss of clients; •recruitment or departure of key personnel; •changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; •sales of common stock or other securities by us in the future; •market conditions in our industry, the industries of our clients and the economy as a whole; and •adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or operating results. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Each of these factors, among others, could harm the value of your investment in our common stock. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As of February 28, 2011, we had outstanding 17,819,257 shares of common stock. Contractual lock-up restrictions on the sale of approximately 11,467,160 million shares held by certain stockholders expired on December 1, 2010. In addition, as of February 28, 2011, 10,589 shares subject to our remaining outstanding warrants, 2,997,164 shares that are subject to outstanding options, 215,091 shares subject to outstanding restricted stock units and 878,462 shares reserved for future issuance under our equity plans, were eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Some of our existing stockholders have contractual demand or piggyback rights to require us to register with the SEC up to 5,336,038 shares of our common stock. If we register these shares of common stock, the stockholders would be able to sell those shares freely in the public market. On July 12, 2010, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-8 with the SEC to register 3,471,358 shares of our common stock that we have issued or may issue under our equity plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the lock-up agreements, if applicable, described above. 39 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If no or few securities or industry analysts commence coverage of us, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which apply to us, may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws: •authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; •establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; •require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote; •require that a supermajority vote be obtained to amend or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; •require that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders; •provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office rather than by stockholders; •prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; and •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders. Our management will continue to have broad discretion over the use of the proceeds raised in our recent initial public offering and might not apply the proceeds in ways that may enhance our operating results or the price of our common stock. Our management will continue to have broad discretion over the use of proceeds from our recent initial public offering, and you will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the application of these proceeds. Our management might not apply the net proceeds of the initial public offering in ways that increase the value of your investment. On May 12, 2010, we used $1.9 million of 40 Table of Contents the net proceeds from the initial public offering to retire all the outstanding debt under the revolving line of credit and the term loan with Comerica Bank. On January 28, 2011, we used approximately $4.9 million of the net proceeds from the initial public offering to acquire StrategicOne. We anticipate that we will use the remaining net proceeds from the initial public offering for general corporate purposes. We may use a portion of the proceeds to expand our business through acquisitions or investigations in other complimentary businesses, particularly those with similar clients and adjacent products or technologies, however, we have no agreements or commitments with respect to any acquisitions at this time. Our management might not be able to yield a significant return, if any, on any investment of these net proceeds. You will not have the opportunity to influence our decisions on how the net proceeds of the initial public offering are used. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 