Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy We are an early stage company with a history of losses, we expect to incur losses for at least the next several years, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred substantial net losses since our inception in February 2000. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, we incurred net losses of $15.1 million, $16.1 million and $17.2 million, respectively. Our accumulated deficit was approximately $95.7 million at December 31, 2010. We expect to continue to incur substantial net losses for at least the next several years, and these losses are likely to increase in the near-term. Historically, we have generated limited revenue from our biomarker discovery and analysis services agreements. Additionally, we have only recently begun limited marketing and sales activities in Europe relating to our first diagnostic test for galectin-3, and, to date, we have recognized only a limited amount of product revenue. As we continue the discovery and development of our diagnostic product candidates, our expenses are expected to increase significantly. Accordingly, we will need to generate significant revenue to achieve profitability. We received 510(k) clearance from the FDA in November 2010 for a manual version of our BGM Galectin-3 test, and galectin-3 testing services are currently being offered for use by clinicians in the United States through LabCorp. Even as we begin selling this test and potentially other products, we expect our losses to continue as a result of ongoing research and development expenses, as well as increased manufacturing, sales and marketing expenses. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development and commercialization efforts, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, and we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and then maintain profitability, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected and the market value of our common stock will decline. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize novel diagnostic products and services based on biomarkers. If we fail to develop and commercialize diagnostic products, we may be unable to execute our business plan. Historically, we have generated revenue from initiatives, collaborations and biomarker discovery and analysis services agreements with pharmaceutical companies and healthcare organizations. Our current business strategy, however, focuses on discovering, developing and commercializing diagnostic products and services based on biomarkers, and we do not expect to continue to receive significant revenue from performing biomarker discovery and analysis services for third parties. The success of our business will depend on our ability to develop and commercialize diagnostic products based on the candidates that we currently have in our product pipeline, as well as others that we might develop internally or in-license in the future. Prior to commercializing our diagnostic products, we are required to undertake time-consuming and costly development activities, sometimes including clinical studies, and to obtain regulatory clearance or approval, for which the outcome is uncertain. We have limited experience in taking biomarker discovery projects through the development and commercialization stages. There are considerable risks involved in these activities. The science and methods that we are employing are innovative and complex, and it is possible that our product development programs will ultimately not yield diagnostic tests for commercialization. Products that appear promising in early development may fail to be validated in subsequent studies, and even if we achieve positive results, we may still fail to obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals. Few research and development projects result in commercial products, and perceived viability in early clinical studies often is not replicated in later studies. At any point, we may abandon development of a product candidate, or we may be required to expend considerable resources obtaining additional clinical and nonclinical data, which would adversely impact the timing for generating potential revenue from those product candidates. If our discovery and development programs yield fewer commercial products than we expect, we may be unable to execute our business plan, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully commercialize our galectin-3 test or complete our AMIPredict studies in the timeframes we expect. We received 510(k) clearance from the FDA in November 2010 for a manual version of our BGM Galectin-3 test, and galectin-3 testing services are currently being offered for use by clinicians in the United States through LabCorp. In addition, we are currently conducting additional validation studies using the automated version of our AMIPredict product candidate and expect to complete these validation studies in the first half of 2011. Commercial introduction of the automated version of our galectin-3 test and our AMIPredict product will require FDA clearance or approval. There are a variety of risks and uncertainties that may cause delays in, or prevent us from, successfully commercializing our galectin-3 test or achieving these development milestones in accordance with our planned timeline, or at all, which we explain in greater detail in the sections titled “Business — BGM Galectin-3 in Heart Failure — Overview,” “Business — BGM Galectin-3 in Heart Failure — Commercialization” and “Business — AMIPredict for Acute Atherothrombosis (Cause of Heart Attack or Stroke) — Additional Studies Planned.” Delays may result from unanticipated problems in product development, an inability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval on a timely basis, and an inability to successfully enter into partnerships with diagnostic laboratory instrument companies and other risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may never successfully commercialize our diagnostic tests. If we are unable to execute our commercialization strategy, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain our business. We are an early stage company and have engaged in only limited sales and marketing activities for our first product, the BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure. To date, we have recognized only a limited amount of product revenue. We are in the process of transitioning into a commercial organization, and we have only very limited experience to date in conducting commercial activities. We anticipate that a substantial portion of any future product revenue will come from sales of our galectin-3 test. We received 510(k) clearance from the FDA in November 2010 for a manual version of our BGM Galectin-3 test, and galectin-3 testing services are currently being offered for use by clinicians in the United States through LabCorp. In addition, the test has obtained CE Mark in the European Union, but we have commenced only limited sales and marketing activities in the region. Our success in commercializing our galectin-3 test and any other product candidates that we are able to develop will require that we expand or develop a wide variety of operational functions with which to date we have had little or no experience. We intend to retain worldwide marketing rights to our products, and we will be primarily responsible for generating demand, increasing market adoption, working with payors to make reimbursement and coverage determinations and ensuring that our biomarker-based tests realize their market potential. To accomplish this, we will need to create a commercial infrastructure that we do not currently have. We have hired a senior sales executive, but to execute our strategy we also plan to hire a limited number of professionals to form our specialty sales force. Sales professionals with the necessary technical and business qualifications we plan to hire are in high demand, and we may have difficulty hiring or retaining them. We plan to distribute and market our products initially through U.S. national and regional laboratory service providers, such as LabCorp, and through large diagnostic laboratory instrument manufacturers, such as Abbott, Alere, bioMérieux and Siemens. Moreover, even if we are able to implement this strategy, we will be largely dependent on these third parties for the commercial success of our products. They may not deploy the resources we would like them to, and our revenue would then suffer. In addition, we could become embroiled in disputes with these parties regarding the terms of any agreements, their performance or intellectual property rights. Any dispute could disrupt the sales of our products and adversely affect our reputation and revenue. Our strategy to leverage the expertise, marketing resources and installed base of these potential partners may ultimately fail. If the marketplace does not accept our galectin-3 test or any other diagnostic products we might develop, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain and grow our business. Even though we believe that the manual version of our BGM Galectin-3 test and our other diagnostic product candidates represent promising commercial opportunities, our products may never gain significant acceptance in the marketplace and therefore never generate substantial revenue or profits for us. As is the case with all novel biomarkers, we must establish a market for our galectin-3 test and build that market through physician education and awareness programs. We have built and launched an educational website for Europe supporting the clinical utility of our galectin-3 test for use in heart failure. Publication in peer review journals of results from studies using our products will be an important consideration in the adoption by physicians of our products. The process of 32 Table of Contents publication in leading medical journals is subject to a peer review process. Peer reviewers may not consider the results of our galectin-3 studies sufficiently novel or worthy of publication. Failure to have our studies published in peer review journals may adversely affect adoption of our products. Under our collaboration agreements with Abbott, Alere, bioMérieux and Siemens for the commercialization of our galectin-3 test, we bear primary responsibility for validating the clinical utility of our galectin-3 test. We are also responsible for promoting the utility of the galectin-3 biomarker, including developing and executing plans to raise awareness of, and create demand for, our galectin-3 test among clinicians and payors, as well as developing and implementing a reimbursement strategy for our galectin-3 test. We have little experience in these types of activities. We may be unable to demonstrate that our galectin-3 test provides incremental benefits over currently available heart failure diagnostic tests sufficient to ensure adoption of our test. Our ability to successfully commercialize the diagnostic products that we may develop will depend on numerous factors, including: Ø whether healthcare providers believe our galectin-3 test and any other diagnostic tests that we successfully develop provide sufficient incremental clinical utility; Ø whether the medical community accepts that our diagnostic products have sufficient sensitivity and specificity to be meaningful in patient care and treatment decisions; and Ø whether health insurers, government health programs and other third-party payors will cover and pay for our diagnostic tests and the amount they will reimburse. These factors may present obstacles to commercial acceptance of our diagnostic product candidates. If these obstacles arise, we may need to devote substantial time and money to surmount these obstacles, and we might not be successful. Failure to achieve widespread market acceptance of our diagnostic products would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Health insurers and other third-party payors may decide not to cover our diagnostic products or may provide inadequate reimbursement, which could jeopardize our commercial prospects. In the United States, the regulatory process that allows diagnostic tests to be marketed is independent of any coverage determinations made by third-party payors. For new diagnostic tests, private and government payors decide whether to cover the test, the reimbursement amount for a covered test and the specific conditions for reimbursement. Physicians may order diagnostic tests that are not reimbursed by third-party payors, but coverage determinations and reimbursement levels and conditions are critical to the commercial success of a diagnostic product. Each third-party payor makes its own decision about which tests it will cover and how much it will pay, although many payors will follow the lead of Medicare. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of each of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that approval will be obtained. If third-party payors decide not to cover our diagnostic tests or if they offer inadequate payment amounts, our ability to generate revenue from our diagnostic tests could be limited. Even if one or more third-party payors decides to reimburse for our tests, a third-party payor may stop or lower payment at any time, which would reduce revenue. We intend to develop a strategy to advocate for desired coverage and payment levels, which will include aligning ourselves with third-party payors to encourage the acceptance of our products. However, we cannot predict whether third-party payors will cover our tests or offer adequate reimbursement. We also cannot predict the timing of such decisions. In addition, physicians or patients may decide not to order our tests if third-party payments are inadequate, especially if ordering the test could result in financial liability for the patient. In the United States, the American Medical Association assigns specific CPT codes, which are a medical nomenclature used to report medical procedures and services under public and private health insurance plans. Once the CPT code is established, the CMS establishes reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules for Medicare, and private payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. We have initiated the process to obtain an analyte-specific CPT code for measuring galectin-3 in plasma or serum. Based on the AMA’s submission process, we expect to be eligible to obtain an analyte-specific CPT Code for galectin-3 testing on the 2013 Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule or thereafter. However, we cannot guarantee that our galectin-3 test will receive its own analyte-specific CPT code and will be approved for reimbursement by Medicare or other third-party payors. Additionally, any or all of our diagnostic tests developed in the future may not be approved for reimbursement or may be approved at a level that limits our commercial success. In addition, payment for diagnostic tests furnished to Medicare beneficiaries is made based on a fee schedule set by 33 Table of Contents CMS in most instances. In recent years, payments under these fee schedules have decreased and may decrease more, which could jeopardize our commercial prospects. Reimbursement decisions in the European Union and in other jurisdictions outside of the United States vary by country and region and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining adequate reimbursement. We expect to face intense competition, often from companies with greater resources and experience than us. The diagnostics industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. The industry continues to expand and evolve as an increasing number of competitors and potential competitors enter the market. Many of these competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, managerial and research and development resources and experience than we do. Some of these competitors and potential competitors have more experience than we do in the development of diagnostic products, including validation procedures and regulatory matters. In addition, we expect that our diagnostic products, if successfully developed, will compete with product offerings from large and well-established companies that have greater marketing and sales experience and capabilities than we do. We are aware of other diagnostic tests under development, which, if successfully developed and commercialized, would compete with our products. Our competitors, some of whom we collaborate with and will rely on to commercialize our products, may include established diagnostics companies, such as Abbott, Beckman Coulter, Roche Diagnostics, General Electric, Alere, LabCorp, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Mitsubishi, Philips and Siemens. We may also compete with national laboratory services providers with extensive service networks for diagnostic tests, such as LabCorp and Quest Diagnostics, and specialized laboratories, such as Genzyme Genetics and Myriad Genetics. Companies that may compete with us in cardiovascular disease, immune disorders and central nervous system disorders include Athena Diagnostics, Atherotech, Celera Group, Dako, diaDexus, QIAGEN, Liposcience, Rules-Based Medicine and XDx. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may be unable to grow and sustain our revenue. We are dependent on third parties for the patient samples that are essential to our biomarker discovery and diagnostics product development plans. To pursue our biomarker discovery and diagnostics product development program, we will need access, over time, to thousands of patient samples, including blood, blood plasma and serum, urine and other fluids. We do not have direct access to a supply of patient samples. As a result, we have made arrangements with third parties, such as academic medical centers, government programs and payors such as Humana, that we believe will give us access to a significant number of patient samples over the coming years. Most of the institutions and physicians from which we obtain biological specimens that we use in our research and validation work are “Covered Entities” under HIPAA. Under this law, these parties may have to obtain proper authorization from their patients for the subsequent use of those samples and associated clinical information. We are not presently a Covered Entity or a Business Associate of a Covered Entity subject to HIPAA; however, we may become a Covered Entity or a Business Associate of a Covered Entity in the future, if we provide clinical laboratory testing services. We may lose access to patient samples provided by such third parties, or have that access limited, because the third parties decrease the number of patient samples they provide, due to changes in privacy laws governing the use and disclosure of medical information or due to changes in the laws restricting our ability to obtain patient samples and associated information. In certain instances, we owe the party providing the samples for our research programs payments which may be related to the sales of products derived from those research programs. In addition, we may be forced to actively pursue patient samples from other sources for the diagnostic testing indications we pursue, which could be expensive and time consuming. If we fail to secure and maintain an adequate supply of patient samples, or if our existing supply arrangements are terminated or result in access to fewer samples than expected, our ability to pursue our biomarker discovery and development efforts may be slowed or halted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers for some of our laboratory instruments and supplies used in biomarker discovery and development and we will rely on third-party suppliers for the commercialization of our products. If any of these supply arrangements are interrupted or terminated, we may not be able to find adequate replacements on a timely basis or at all. We rely on mass spectrometry equipment and other advanced instruments from Applied Biosystems and other vendors to generate the vast majority of data for our biomarker discovery and development projects. In addition, we anticipate that we will rely on Abbott, Alere, bioMérieux, Siemens and other vendors to supply us with laboratory immunochemistry instruments and reagents for the development and future commercialization of the BGM 34 Table of Contents Galectin-3 test for heart failure, AMIPredict and future diagnostic product candidates. If we were to lose any of these suppliers or if our suppliers were to become unwilling or unable to provide these materials in required quantities or on our required timelines, we would be required to identify new suppliers with similar instrumentation, reagents and software capable of supporting our discovery and development efforts based on our proprietary technologies, or possibly modify our discovery and development processes and procedures. If supplies for the BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, AMIPredict or any future diagnostic product candidates are interrupted or terminated, we may need to repeat some or all of our development studies for such products, and we may need to seek a new or amended FDA registration for such products. We may not be able to identify or contract with acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are able to identify other suppliers, there is no guarantee that we would be able to transfer our technologies to new instruments and equipment or substitute reagents or other materials with comparable results or on a timely basis. We may also become involved in disputes with our third-party suppliers or we may become party to disputes between these suppliers and other parties, which could be expensive and time consuming. Delays or difficulties experienced with these third-party suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. If we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we may be unable to execute our business plan. We expect to continue to incur substantial net losses for at least the next several years. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through 2012. If we are not able to generate significant revenues from sales of our galectin-3 tests by the end of 2012, we will need to raise funds to continue our operations and to develop and potentially commercialize our second product candidate, AMIPredict. If we incur delays in commencing commercialization of our galectin-3 test or in achieving significant product revenue, or if we encounter other unforeseen adverse business developments, we may exhaust our capital resources prior to this time. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. Financing opportunities may not be available to us, or if available, may not be on favorable terms. The availability of financing opportunities will depend on various factors, such as market conditions and our financial condition and outlook. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we obtain additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms favorable to us, we may be unable to execute our business plan and we may be required to cease or reduce development or commercialization of our product candidates, sell some or all of our technology or assets or merge with another entity. Declining general economic or business conditions may have a negative impact on our business. Continuing concerns over U.S. healthcare reform legislation and energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and government stimulus programs in the United States and other countries have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with low business and consumer confidence and high unemployment, precipitated an economic slowdown and recession. If the economic climate does not improve or continues to deteriorate, our business, including our access to patient samples and the addressable market for diagnostic tests that we may successfully develop, as well as the financial condition of our suppliers and our third-party payors, could be adversely affected, resulting in a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If the combination of patents, trade secrets and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect our intellectual property proves inadequate, our ability to successfully commercialize our proposed products will be harmed and we may never be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods, discoveries and diagnostic tests that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we 35 Table of Contents can seek to prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. We rely on both patents and trade secrets to protect the proprietary aspects of our methods and discoveries. We have a non-exclusive license to practice and commercialize technology covered by two issued U.S. patents and their foreign counterparts that relate to our methods for discovering biomarkers. As of February 28, 2011, we have one issued U.S. patent and 20 pending patent applications filed either with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or under the PCT and foreign counterparts of certain of these patent applications. A subset of the intellectual property that we own or license relates to our galectin-3 test for heart failure. This intellectual property includes U.S. Patent No. 7,888,137, exclusively licensed from ACS Biomarker B.V. and nine corresponding patent applications pending in the U.S. and abroad, as well as an issued patent in Australia. U.S. Patent No. 7,888,137 is scheduled to expire in November 2026. The Australian patent is scheduled to expire in September 2024 and any patent issuing from the foreign patent applications corresponding to this Australian patent would also be scheduled to expire in September 2024. We own a U.S. and PCT application relating to a specific method and kit for detecting galectin-3. Any patent issuing from this U.S. application could expire as early as 2029. In addition, we own three U.S. patent applications and one PCT application related to methods for clinical evaluation of subjects and therapies based on galectin-3 measurements. For the diagnostic tests that we develop based on our biomarker discoveries, we expect to rely primarily on patent protection. We have filed or have license rights to a number of patent applications related to our proprietary methods and diagnostic tests, but we do not yet have any issued patents in the United States or Europe. Moreover, several of our owned and licensed patent applications are in an early stage of prosecution, and we cannot assure you that any of the pending patent applications will result in patents being issued. In addition, due to technological changes that may affect our proposed products or judicial interpretation of the scope of our patents, our proposed products might not, now or in the future, be adequately covered by our patents. The patentability of biomarkers and of test methods and products based on biomarkers is well-established in most countries. However, the issue of any patent, including the patents for which we have applied, depends upon a detailed interpretation of the specific patent claims and prior art, and generally is highly uncertain because of the complex legal and factual considerations it involves. In recent years, patentability issues have been the subject of much litigation. The result of these legal developments may preclude or limit the patent protection available for our diagnostic tests, such as those we use to develop our proposed products. The patentability of claims currently pending, the validity and enforceability of issued or to be issued patent claims and the commercial value of our patent rights, therefore, are highly uncertain. In addition, we cannot be certain that we hold the rights to the technology covered by pending patent applications or to other proprietary technology required for us to commercialize our proposed products. Rights in applications filed by us or our licensors may be affected adversely by patent applications filed by others which have not yet been published. For example, because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after this date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. For this and other reasons, we may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity or co-exclusivity. It is also possible that one or more organizations will hold patent rights to which we will need a license. If those organizations refuse to grant us a license to such patent rights on reasonable terms, we will not be able to market our proposed products. If third parties assert that we have infringed their patents and proprietary rights or challenge the validity of our patents and proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our proposed products. Our ability to commercialize our proposed products depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our proposed products without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may allege that our proposed products or our methods or discoveries infringe their intellectual property rights. Numerous U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in fields that relate to our proposed products and our underlying methodologies and discoveries, including patents and patent applications claiming methods for the discovery of biomarkers or biomarker sets and assay systems and methods designed to exploit them clinically in drug discovery efforts or in selection of patients. A third party may sue us for infringing its patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could 36 Table of Contents be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s attention from other aspects of our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. If we are found to infringe upon intellectual property rights of third parties, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some or all of our products, which could limit our ability to generate revenue or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. Moreover, we expect that a number of our collaborations will provide that royalties payable to us for licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts paid by our collaborators to third parties who have competing or superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields, which could result in significant reductions in our revenue from products developed through collaborations. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology, pharmaceutical or diagnostic products companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. While we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the former employer’s intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information. Litigation based on such allegations may be brought against us, and even if we are successful in defending ourselves, we could incur substantial costs and our management could be distracted. If we fail in defending such allegations, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, we may be unable to protect our interests in proprietary technology, processes and know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, including particularly our biomarker discovery methodologies. In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, in particular as we are required to make such information available to a larger pool of people as we seek to expand our discovery and development efforts and commercialize our proposed products. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees and consultants have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent technology, processes and know-how or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary technology, processes and know-how, competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. Several of our collaboration agreements provide for licenses to us of intellectual property or sharing of rights to intellectual property that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional agreements in the future that provide licenses to us of valuable technology. These licenses impose, and future licenses may impose, various commercialization, milestone and other obligations on us, including the obligation to terminate our use of patented subject matter under certain contingencies. If a licensor becomes entitled to, and exercises, termination rights under a license, we would lose valuable rights and our ability to develop our products. We may need to license other intellectual property to commercialize future products. Our business may suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related To the Growth of Our Management Team, Workforce, Manufacturing and Facilities Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key employees and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on Pieter Muntendam, M.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, and the other principal members of our executive team. All of the arrangements with the principal members of our executive and scientific teams may be terminated by us or the employee at any time without notice. The loss of any of these persons’ expertise would be difficult to replace and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business goals. In addition, the loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our scientific staff may impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives by diverting management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, if any. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel and, in the future, sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. We expect to expand our development, clinical research, and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. To accommodate the commercial launch of any diagnostic products that we are able to develop successfully and the demands of being a public company, we expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities, and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. If our sole laboratory facility becomes damaged or inoperable, our ability to pursue our discovery and development efforts may be jeopardized. We currently perform all of our biomarker discovery and development work in our laboratories at our headquarters in Waltham, Massachusetts. At the present time, we do not have redundant laboratory facilities. Our facilities could be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including fire, flooding and power outages, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to perform our biomarker discovery and development work for some period of time. A key component of our discovery engine is our unique access to biological samples, and the resulting data sets and medical histories that form the foundation of our biomarker discovery and clinical validation. Access to suitable samples for discovery or validation is often an important gating factor for our discovery projects. If these biological samples or related data are damaged or compromised, our ability to pursue our discovery and development projects, as well as our reputation, may be jeopardized. In some cases, the samples are unique and irreplaceable. Furthermore, our facilities and the equipment we use to perform our discovery and development work could be costly and time-consuming to repair or replace. Although we maintain insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If the patient samples to which we have obtained access are damaged or we lose operation of our laboratory facilities for any extended period of time, our discovery and development projects could be delayed, and our reputation and relationships with collaborators could be harmed. In order to establish a redundant laboratory facility, if necessary, we would be required to spend considerable time and money securing adequate space, constructing the facility, recruiting and training employees and establishing the additional operational and administrative infrastructure necessary to support a second facility. 38 Table of Contents Failure in our information technology and storage systems could significantly disrupt the operation of our proprietary technology platform and our ability to discover and validate biomarkers, which would adversely impact our development and commercialization efforts. Our ability to execute our business plan depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems, or IT systems, which support our discovery and development platform. Our platform integrates molecular measurement technologies based on specialized mass spectrometry, chromatography, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and multiplexed assay technologies. Due to the sophisticated nature of our proprietary technology platform, we are substantially dependent on our IT systems. IT systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, and in particular to operate our proprietary technology platform, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We rely on a single third party to manufacture and supply our product candidates. Any problems experienced by this vendor could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of our product candidates to us until this vendor cures the problem or until we locate and qualify an alternative source of supply. The manufacture of our diagnostic product candidates requires specialized equipment and utilizes complicated production processes that would be difficult, time-consuming and costly to duplicate. Corgenix Medical Corporation is currently the third-party manufacturer of our galectin-3 test. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our third-party manufacturer could have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture products on our own and would cause us to seek additional third-party manufacturing contracts, thereby increasing our development and any commercialization costs. We may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed coverage under our manufacturer’s insurance policies. Events beyond our control, such as natural disasters, fire, sabotage or business accidents could have a significant negative impact on our operations by disrupting our product candidate development and commercialization efforts until our third-party manufacturer can repair its facility or put in place third-party contract manufacturers to assume this manufacturing role, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if we are required to change manufacturers for any reason, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer or the reverification of an existing manufacturer could negatively affect our ability to develop product candidates or produce approved products in a timely manner. Any delay or interruption in our clinical studies for the validation and commercialization of our product candidates could negatively affect our business. In pursuing the first path of our commercialization strategy for our manual BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, we plan to rely initially on LabCorp to provide the majority of our manual galectin-3 testing services in the United States. Any disruptions in LabCorp’s operations could result in a delay or interruption of the galectin-3 testing service. We are pursuing three distinct paths for the commercialization of our diagnostic tests, including sales of manual versions of our tests through laboratory service providers, sales by us through certified clinical laboratories and sales of automated versions of our tests through leading diagnostic instrument manufacturers for use on their instruments. In pursuing the first path of our commercialization strategy for our manual BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, we plan to rely initially on Labcorp to provide a majority of our manual galectin-3 testing services in the United States. We may suffer losses as a result of any business interruptions experienced by LabCorp. Events beyond our control, such as natural disasters, fire, sabotage or business accidents could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Any prolonged disruption in LabCorp’s operations could have a significant negative impact on our ability to successfully commercialize our galectin-3 test by selling manual versions of our galectin-3 test through laboratory service providers in the United States until LabCorp cures the problem or until alternate testing sites are established or arrangements have been made with alternate providers of laboratory testing services, which we may not be able to do on acceptable terms, if at all, and which may increase our commercialization costs. Additionally, the delays associated with identifying and setting up alternate laboratory service providers could negatively affect the adoption of galectin-3 testing by physicians. 39 Table of Contents If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage, and such claims may harm our business in other ways. Our business exposes us to product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of diagnostic products. Although we currently maintain limited product liability insurance, we anticipate needing to secure additional product liability insurance for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We cannot be certain whether we will be able to secure such insurance on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A product liability claim in excess of any insurance coverage we may obtain would have to be paid out of our cash reserves and could harm our business. In addition, any injunction or other restriction on our ability to sell against one of our product candidates could harm our business. If we complete our development of any diagnostic tests, the marketing, sale and use of our tests could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that our product failed to perform as it was designed. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming for us to defend. We cannot provide assurance that our product liability insurance would protect us from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, result in the recall of our product candidates, or cause current collaborators to terminate existing agreements and potential collaborators to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. Our activities involve hazardous materials and may subject us to environmental liability or other costs. Certain activities of our businesses involve the controlled use of limited quantities of hazardous, biological and radioactive materials and may generate biological waste. We and our manufacturers are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and liability for any resultant injury from these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials. In the event of an accident or if we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could lose our permits or approvals or be held liable for damages or penalized with fines. Although we currently maintain limited insurance to cover claims related to hazardous materials or environmental liability claims, any claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be required to be paid out of our cash reserves and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. Risks Related To Regulatory Approval and Other Government Regulations Although we recently received FDA clearance for our manual BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, we may not obtain regulatory clearance for the automated version of this test or for our other diagnostic product candidates when expected, if at all. In the United States, we intend to seek FDA clearance or approval for all of our products prior to their launch for clinical use, whether offered as a diagnostic kit or laboratory service. The FDA process can be lengthy and unpredictable. For example, for our first product, the BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure, we initially submitted a 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA in March 2009. Upon review of our 510(k) application, the FDA determined that our device was not substantially equivalent to the legally marketed device to which we claimed substantial equivalence and therefore denied clearance. The FDA indicated that additional clinical and other data were required in support of our filing, and we re-submitted a 510(k) application in December 2009 with additional data. In February 2010, we received a letter from the FDA regarding our 510(k) application that requested additional clinical and statistical information to support our application and, after further contact with the FDA, we submitted our formal response to the FDA letter in August 2010. We received 510(k) clearance from the FDA in November 2010 for a manual version of our BGM Galectin-3 test. Commercial introduction of the automated version of our galectin-3 test and our AMIPredict product will require FDA clearance or approval. If we submit a 510(k) application for any of our product candidates and the FDA denies our request, we may be required to seek and obtain PMA. The PMA process is more complex, costly and time-consuming than the 510(k) process. A PMA must be supported by more detailed and comprehensive scientific evidence, including clinical data, to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the medical device for its intended purpose. Any material delays in our receipt of regulatory clearance or approval for our automated galectin-3 test and our other product candidates in development, or our failure to obtain such clearances or approvals at all, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents To market our products in Europe, we must obtain CE mark and may, in some cases, need marketing approval from the European Medicines Agency. In October 2009, we obtained CE Mark in the European Union for our first product, our galectin-3 test for heart failure. Changes in regulatory review procedures, approval requirements or enactment of additional regulatory approval requirements may delay or prevent us from marketing our proposed products. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market medical devices, including in vitro diagnostic test kits, from the FDA and similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States can be costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, each regulatory agency may impose its own requirements and may refuse to grant approval or may require additional data before granting marketing approval even if marketing approval has been granted by other agencies. For example, in seeking clearance from the FDA for our galectin-3 test, we relied on samples from previously concluded studies sponsored by other parties to determine the clinical utility of our galectin-3 test, and we may do so for our other product candidates. While the FDA accepted such data in support of our galectin-3 test, and we believe it has accepted such data in other cases, the FDA may require us to conduct our own prospective studies to support future product clearances or approvals, which would make the development and validation of our product candidates more costly and time-consuming. Our manual BGM Galectin-3 test for heart failure and any future products cleared by the FDA will be subject to ongoing regulation by the FDA. Failure to comply with such regulation could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: Ø compliance with QSR; Ø labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on marketing; and Ø medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: Ø warning letters; Ø fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; Ø recall or seizure of our products; Ø operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; Ø refusal to grant 510(k) clearance or PMAs of new products; Ø withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or PMAs that are already granted; and Ø criminal prosecution. Being subject to any of these sanctions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to regulations under additional federal and state laws. If we develop diagnostic tests suitable for commercialization, and after receiving all necessary regulatory clearances and approvals, we will be subject to national, regional and local regulations. For example, in the United States, the regulations which we may be subject to include: Ø the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and its related rules, regulations, guidance documents and other interpretations relating to the manufacture and marketing of medical products; Ø the federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-kickback Law, and state anti-kickback prohibitions; Ø the federal physician self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, and the state equivalents; Ø HIPAA; Ø the various state laws governing patient privacy; and 41 Table of Contents Ø the federal civil and criminal False Claims Act. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. If in the future we decide to operate our own laboratory for our diagnostic tests, we will become subject to the CLIA, a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain CLIA accreditation, or if we do, that we would be able to renew it. If we are unable to obtain CLIA accreditation, we may be limited in our ability to perform testing, which would limit our revenue and harm our business. Any action brought against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we prevail, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, we may be subject to any applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines. We could also be required to refund any improperly received payments, and we could be required to curtail or cease our operations. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we or our third-party manufacturer fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulation, or if we are not successful in addressing the observations included in a Form FDA-483 that we recently received, the development and manufacture of our products could be delayed or interrupted and our products may be subject to product recalls. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA’s QSR and other regulations which cover, among other things, the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA monitors compliance with QSR through periodic inspections. In November 2010, the FDA conducted an inspection of our facilities in Waltham, Massachusetts for the first time. Following that inspection, the FDA issued a Form FDA-483 listing three inspectional observations (variances from protocols or other deficiencies) with respect to our facilities. The first observation related to how we documented our procedures and findings for an in-use stability study. This study was designed to determine the conditions under which our test components may be stored for reuse once opened. In response to the FDA observations, we have repeated this study using our third-party manufacturer, Corgenix. The results from the Corgenix-run study corroborated the results from our earlier study, which confirmed that our test components are stable (and therefore reliable) under specified storage conditions, and therefore, no further action is required. The second observation related to our documentation and implementation of corrective and preventative action procedures. The third observation related to documentation and implementation of training programs for our staff. We have taken corrective actions and believe we have remediated the noted deficiencies. However, we cannot be sure that our remedial measures will be acceptable to the FDA or that the FDA will not cite further deficiencies in subsequent inspections. While it is our intention to outsource the commercial manufacturing of our galectin-3 test and our other products under development, we do intend to continue performing studies as part of our internal product development activities. The Form FDA-483 did not require us to cease manufacturing or any other activities, and we intend to continue our operations in the normal course. If the FDA determines that we or our contractors are not in compliance with applicable regulatory standards or that we did not adequately remediate the noted deficiencies, we could be prevented or forced to delay the development or manufacture of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any failure to maintain QSR compliance could force us to cease the development or manufacture of our products and subject us to other enforcement sanctions, including withdrawal of our products from the U.S. or foreign markets, and delay or interrupt the development or manufacture of additional products. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent our product candidates’ commercial success. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. Any government-adopted reform measures could adversely impact the pricing of healthcare products, including our diagnostic products, and services in the U.S. or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, 42 Table of Contents insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce healthcare costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices we believe are fair for any diagnostic products we may develop and commercialize. Changes in healthcare policy, such as the creation of broad limits for diagnostic products, could substantially interrupt the sale of future diagnostic tests, increase costs, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for diagnostic products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenue, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging due to several reasons, including policies advanced by the U.S. government, new healthcare legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. Specifically, in both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell any diagnostic products we may develop and commercialize profitably. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our diagnostic products, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. For example, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the PPACA, which may have far reaching consequences for life science companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payors and government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, the creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. Restructuring the coverage of medical care in the United States could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices or our product candidates. If reimbursement for our approved product candidates, if any, is substantially less that we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, certain members of Congress have declared their intentions to effect the repeal of some or all of PPACA, adding further uncertainty to the law’s future impact on us. Further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the PPACA, by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. Risks Related To Our Common Stock The trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on The NASDAQ Global Market. Additionally, the public float of our common stock is approximately 53% of our outstanding shares of common stock, which substantially reduces the liquidity of our common stock and contributes to the limited trading volume for our common stock. Since our initial listing on The NASDAQ Global Market on February 4, 2011, the trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on The NASDAQ Global Market. The quotation of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists. We cannot predict whether a more active market for our common stock will develop in the future. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to sell our common stock at current market prices in short time periods, or possibly at all. Additionally, market visibility for our common stock may be limited and such lack of visibility may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. The public float of our common stock is approximately 53% of our outstanding shares of common stock, which adversely affects the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock, in as much as federal securities laws restrict sales of our shares by these stockholders. If our affiliates continue to hold their shares of common stock, 43 Table of Contents there will be limited trading volume in our common stock, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares or increase the volatility of our stock price. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may drop. Prior to our initial public offering in February 2011, there was not a public market for our common stock and it is too early to determine whether an active trading market will develop and continue. There is a limited history on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price. The stock markets, and the markets for medical diagnostics and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Some of the many factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: Ø our ability to commercialize the products, if any, that we are able to develop; Ø the progress and results of our biomarker discovery and product candidate development efforts; Ø actions taken by regulatory authorities with respect to our product candidates, or our sales and marketing activities; Ø regulatory developments in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions; Ø the outcome of legal actions to which we may become a party; Ø announcements concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; Ø announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; Ø changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; Ø changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; Ø restatements of our financial results and/or material weaknesses in our internal controls; Ø publication of research reports about us or the diagnostic products industry by securities or industry analysts; Ø fluctuations in our operating results; and Ø deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts or other analyst comments. Any broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may not be able to sell when they desire due to insufficient buyer demand and may realize less than, or lose all of, their investment. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our financial condition, operating results and reputation. Insiders control a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management and/or the board of directors. Certain of our directors, principal stockholders and/or their affiliates, including Flagship Ventures, or Flagship, Gilde Europe Food & Agribusiness B.V., or Gilde, General Electric Pension Trust, or GE, Legg Mason Capital Management Special Investment Trust, Inc., or Legg Mason, SMALLCAP World Fund, Inc., or SMALLCAP and Stelios Papadopoulos control approximately 75.3% of our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2011. Accordingly, these stockholders, if acting as a group, or Flagship, which alone controls approximately 35.2% of our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2011, will have control or substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, and they may in some instances exercise this control or substantial influence in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control, could deprive you of the opportunity to receive a premium for our common stock as part of a sale and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The requirements of being a public company will require greater resources, increase our costs and distract our management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company with equity securities listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we now incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We are required to comply with certain rules, regulations and requirements with which we were not required to comply prior to becoming a public company. 44 Table of Contents Complying with rules, regulations and requirements will require substantial effort on the part of our board of directors and management and will increase our costs and expenses. We will be required to: Ø institute a more formalized function of internal control over financial reporting; Ø prepare and distribute periodic and current public reports; Ø formalize old and establish new internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; Ø involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and Ø establish and maintain an investor relations function, including the provision of certain information on our website. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. The securities laws require, among other things, that we implement and maintain effective internal control for financial reporting and disclosure. In particular, under current regulations, commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2011, we must begin to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. We expect to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with these requirements. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with these requirements in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by The NASDAQ Stock Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares of common stock is restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Holders of substantially all of the shares of our common stock are subject to 180-day contractual lock-up agreements with the underwriters in our initial public offering or us. These lock-up agreements restrict the ability of such stockholders to transfer their shares of stock until August 3, 2011, unless such date is extended pursuant to the terms of the lock-up agreements, at which time their shares will be eligible for sale in the public market, subject to volume limitations for any such shares held by our affiliates. The market price of our common stock may drop significantly when these restrictions on transfer lapse and our stockholders are able to sell shares of our common stock into the market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares of common stock intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of February 28, 2011, our five largest stockholders beneficially owned, collectively, approximately 74.3% of our outstanding common stock. If one or more of them were to sell a substantial portion of the shares they hold, it could cause our stock price to decline. We have also registered all shares of common stock that are issuable or reserved for grant under our stock plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested, subject to the 180-day lock-up period under the lock-up agreements. Additionally, holders of an aggregate of approximately 14,111,415 shares of our common stock or securities exercisable for shares of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares and to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Holders of warrants exercisable for approximately 55,381 additional shares of our common stock as of February 28, 2011, will have rights, subject to some conditions, to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their 45 Table of Contents recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts who cover us or our industry make unfavorable comments about our market opportunity or product candidates or downgrade our common stock, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the market price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. We may seek the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and collaborative and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, existing stockholders ownership interests will be diluted and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect their rights as a stockholder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Because we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, our stockholders will benefit from their investment in shares only if our common stock appreciates in value. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the operation and growth of our business and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current members of our board and management. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our board of directors. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions: Ø allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; Ø establish a classified board of directors, such that not all members of the board of directors may be elected at one time; Ø authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock, the rights of which will be determined at the discretion of the board of directors that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; Ø require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; Ø establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; Ø limit who may call stockholder meetings; and Ø require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights on our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. 46 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 47 Table of Contents 