ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our LED Business We face significant challenges managing our growth as the market adopts LEDs for general lighting. Our potential for growth depends significantly on the adoption of LEDs within the general lighting market and our ability to affect this rate of adoption. Although LED lighting has grown rapidly in recent years, adoption of LEDs for general lighting is relatively new, still limited and faces significant challenges before widespread adoption. If we are unable to effectively develop, manage and expand our distribution channels for our products, our operating results may suffer. We have expanded into business channels that are different from those in which we have historically operated as we grow our business and sell LED lighting products. If we are unable to effectively penetrate these channels or develop alternate channels to ensure our products are reaching the appropriate customer base, our financial results may be adversely impacted. In addition, if we successfully penetrate or develop these channels, we cannot guarantee that customers will accept our products or that we will be able to deliver them in the timeline established by our customers. 12 We intend to sell a substantial portion of our products to sub-distributors. We will rely on sub-distributors to develop and expand their customer base as well as anticipate demand from their customers. If they are not successful, our growth and profitability may be adversely impacted. Distributors must balance the need to have enough products in stock in order to meet their customers’ needs against their internal target inventory levels and the risk of potential inventory obsolescence. The risks of inventory obsolescence are especially true with technological products. The distributors’ internal target inventory levels vary depending on market cycles and a number of factors within each distributor over which we have very little, if any control. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and have evolving technical requirements. The markets for our products are highly competitive. In the LED market, we compete with companies that manufacture or sell LED chips and LED components as well as those that sell LED lighting products. Competitors continue to offer new LED products with aggressive pricing and improved performance. Competitive pricing pressures may change and could impact our gross margins. We will operate in an industry that is subject to significant fluctuation in supply and demand that affects our LED revenue and profitability. The LED lighting industry is in the early stages of adoption and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life-cycles and fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant fluctuations, often in connection with, or in anticipation of product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. These fluctuations have been characterized by lower product demand, production overcapacity, higher inventory levels and increased pricing pressure. The adoption of or changes in government and/or industry policies, standards or regulations relating to the efficiency, performance or other aspects of LED lighting or changes in government and/or industry policies, standards or regulations that discourage the use of certain traditional lighting technologies, could impact the demand for our LED products. The adoption of or changes in government and/or industry policies, standards or regulations relating to the efficiency, performance or other aspects of LED lighting may impact the demand for our LED products. Demand for our LED products may also be impacted by changes in government and/or industry policies, standards or regulations that discourage the use of certain traditional lighting technologies. For example, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 in the United States imposed constraints on the sale of incandescent lights which began in 2012. These constraints may be eliminated or delayed by legislative action, which could have a negative impact on demand for our products. Risks Related to our ORC Business TransPacific’s Organic Rankine Cycles systems may not achieve broad market acceptance, which would prevent us from increasing our revenue and market share. If we fail to achieve broad market acceptance of our products, there would be an adverse impact on our ability to increase our revenue, gain market share and achieve and sustain profitability. Our ability to achieve broad market acceptance for our products will be impacted by a number of factors, including: ● our ability to timely introduce and complete new designs and timely qualify and certify our products; the implementation time to date has been much longer than expected, thus delaying commercialization of our ORC ● whether the owners of industrial or commercial facility will be willing to purchase Organic Rankine Cycles systems from us given our limited operating history; ● our ability to obtain long-term financing for Organic Rankine Cycles installations based on our product platform on acceptable terms or at all; ● our ability to produce Organic Rankine Cycles systems that compete favorably against other solutions on the basis of price, quality, reliability and performance; ● our ability to develop products that comply with local standards and regulatory requirements, as well as potential in-country manufacturing requirements; and ● our ability to develop and maintain successful relationships with our customers and suppliers. In addition, our ability to achieve increased market share will depend on our ability to increase sales to industrial and commercial facilities and the various sources including solar, biomass, hot flue gases from process industry, landfill, geothermal, gray water/hot fluids and warm ocean waters. These potential clients often have in certain cases made substantial investments in other type of systems, which may create challenges for us to achieve their adoption of our Organic Rankine Cycles solution. 13 The Organic Rankine Cycle industry is highly competitive and we expect to face increased competition as new and existing competitors introduce Organic Rankine Cycle products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and market share. Marketing and selling our Organic Rankine Cycle solutions against traditional solutions is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as new and existing competitors enter the Organic Rankine Cycle market. We believe that there are possibly a number of companies developing Organic Rankine Cycle and other products that will compete directly with our Organic Rankine Cycle systems. Some of our competitors have announced plans to introduce Organic Rankine Cycle products that could compete with our Organic Rankine Cycle systems. Several of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial, marketing, distribution, customer support and other resources, are more established than we are, and have significantly better brand recognition. Some of our competitors have more resources to develop or acquire, and more experience in developing or acquiring, new products and technologies and in creating market awareness for these products and technologies. Further, certain competitors may be able to develop new products more quickly than us and may be able to develop products that are more reliable or which provide more functionality than ours. In addition, some of our competitors have the financial resources to offer competitive products at aggressive or below-market pricing levels, which could cause us to lose sales or market share or require us to lower prices for our Organic Rankine Cycle systems in order to compete effectively. If we have to reduce our prices by more than we anticipated, or if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volume, reducing our costs and expenses or introducing new products, our gross profit would suffer. We also may face competition from some of our customers who evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. For instance, solar module manufacturers could attempt to develop components that directly perform DC to AC conversion in the module itself. Due to the fact that such customers may not seek to make a profit directly from the manufacture of these products, they may have the ability to manufacture competitive products at a lower cost than we would charge such customers. As a result, these customers may purchase fewer of our Organic Rankine Cycle systems or sell products that compete with our Organic Rankine Cycle systems, which would negatively impact our revenue and gross profit. A drop in the retail price of electricity derived from the utility grid or from alternative energy sources may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that a system owner’s decision to purchase an Organic Rankine Cycle system is strongly influenced by the cost of electricity generated by the proposed system relative to the retail price of electricity from the utility grid and the cost of other renewable energy sources, including electricity from Organic Rankine Cycle. Decreases in the retail prices of electricity from the utility grid would make it more difficult for all Organic Rankine Cycle systems to compete. In particular, growth in unconventional natural gas production and an increase in global liquefied natural gas capacity are expected to keep natural gas prices relatively low for the foreseeable future. Persistent low natural gas prices, lower prices of electricity produced from other energy sources, such as nuclear power, or improvements to the utility infrastructure could reduce the retail price of electricity from the utility grid, making the purchase of an Organic Rankine Cycle systems less economically attractive and lowering sales of our Organic Rankine Cycle systems. In addition, energy conservation technologies and public initiatives to reduce demand for electricity also could cause a fall in the retail price of electricity from the utility grid. Moreover, technological developments by our competitors in the solar components industry, including manufacturers of central inverters, could allow these competitors or their partners to offer electricity at costs lower than those that can be achieved from Organic Rankine Cycle installations based on our product platform, which could result in reduced demand for our products. If the cost of electricity generated by Organic Rankine Cycle systems is high relative to the cost of electricity from other sources, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. 14 We depend upon one outside contract manufacturer. Our operations could be disrupted if we encounter problems with this contract manufacturer. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities, and rely upon contract manufacturers to build our products. Our reliance on those contract manufacturers makes us vulnerable to possible capacity constraints and reduced control over component availability, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. The revenues that our contract manufacturer generates from our orders represent a relatively small percentage of its overall revenues. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority in the event of constrained ability to fulfill all of their customer obligations in a timely manner. In addition, the facilities in which our Organic Rankine Cycles are manufactured are located outside of the United States. We believe that the location of these facilities outside of the United States increases supply risk, including the risk of supply interruptions or reductions in manufacturing quality or controls. If our contract manufacturers were unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in required volumes and at high quality levels or renew existing terms under supply agreements, we would have to identify, qualify and select acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. An alternative contract manufacturer may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our quality or production requirements on commercially reasonable terms, including price. Any significant interruption in manufacturing would require us to reduce our supply of products to our customers, which in turn would reduce our revenues, harm our relationships with our customers and damage our relationships with our distributors and end customers and cause us to forego potential revenue opportunities. If we fail to retain our key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future success and ability to implement our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and on the continued contributions of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. All of our employees, including our senior management, are free to terminate their employment relationships with us at any time. Competition for highly skilled technical people is extremely intense, and we face challenges identifying, hiring and retaining qualified personnel in many areas of our business. If we fail to retain our senior management and other key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our strategic objectives and our business could suffer. Risks Related to Divestitures of Business Operating Segment As a result of recent divestitures, we may encounter difficulties restructuring operations that could result in financial results that are different than expected. Effective February 19, 2014, we sold our entire interest in our TCS manufacturing business segment and our TCS distribution business segment. Such activities may divert the attention of management, disrupt our ordinary operations, or result in a reduction of revenue sources. A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to effectively transfer liabilities and other contingencies to the purchaser, and reduce fixed costs that were previously associated with the divested business segment. There is no guarantee that these divestitures will provide us with the anticipated benefits, and if we cannot successfully manage the associated risks, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. 15 Risks Related to our Common Stock There is no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends to our shareholders, which means that you could receive little or no return on your investment. Payment of dividends from our earnings and profits may be made at the sole discretion of our board of directors, subject to the provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes, our articles and restrictions imposed by our creditors. There is no assurance that we will generate any distributable cash from operations. Our board may elect to retain cash for operating purposes, debt retirement, plant improvements or expansion. Consequently, you may receive little or no return on your investment. We may authorize and issue shares of new classes that could be superior to or adversely affect you as a holder of our common stock. Our board of directors and shareholders have the power to authorize and issue shares of classes that have voting powers, designations, preferences, limitations and special rights, including preferred distribution rights, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation rights. These shares may be issued at a price and on terms determined by our board of directors. The terms of the shares and the terms of issuance of the shares could have an adverse impact on your rights and could dilute your financial interest in us. Our shares will be subordinate to all of our debts and liabilities, which increases the risk that you could lose your entire investment. Our shares are equity interests that will be subordinate to all of our current and future indebtedness with respect to claims on our assets. In any liquidation, all of our debts and liabilities must be paid before any payment is made to our shareholders. The amount of any debt financing we incur to finance the construction and commencement of operations at the plant, plus possible additional borrowings and operating liabilities, creates a substantial risk that in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, we may have no assets remaining for distribution to our shareholders after payment of our debts. The Nasdaq Capital Market imposes listing standards on our common stock that we may not be able to fulfill, thereby leading to a possible delisting of our common stock. As a listed Nasdaq Capital Market company, we are subject to rules covering, among other things, certain major corporate transactions, the composition of our Board of Directors and committees thereof, minimum bid price of our common stock and minimum stockholders’ equity. The failure to meet the Nasdaq Capital Market requirements may result in the de-listing of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market, which could adversely affect the liquidity and market price thereof. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 