ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information included herein as well as the information included in other reports and filings made with the SEC before investing in our securities. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Associated With Our Business We are a newly formed company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a newly formed company with no operating results to date. Therefore, our ability to begin operations is dependent upon obtaining financing through the public offering of our securities and consummating a business combination. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to complete a business combination with one or more unidentified operating businesses, through a capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, or other similar transaction, including obtaining a majority interest through contractual arrangements, that is either located in, selling its products or services in, or otherwise investing in Asia, with a specific focus on China. We will only acquire a business or businesses that, upon completion of our initial business combination, will be our majority-owned subsidiaries and will be neither investment companies nor companies excluded from the definition of investment company by Sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940. We do not have any specific business combination under consideration or contemplation. We have commenced our acquisition efforts, including sourcing and identifying potential target acquisitions. We will not generate any revenues or income (other than interest income, net of taxes, if any, on the proceeds of our offering) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur, or that even if we are successful in consummating a business combination, that our company will operate profitably in the future. 21 If we are forced to dissolve and liquidate before a business combination our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to dissolve, liquidate and wind up, there will be no amount payable upon such liquidation with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless. For a more complete discussion of the effects on our shareholders if we are unable to complete a business combination, see the section entitled “Effecting a business combination — Dissolution and liquidation if no business combination.” You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies including the ability to receive all interest earned on the amount held in trust. Since the net proceeds of our offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 upon the consummation of our offering and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon consummation of our offering, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as entitlement to all the interest earned on the funds deposited into the trust account. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, a significant amount of the interest earned on the funds deposited in the trust account will be released to us to fund our working capital and will not be available at all to those public shareholders redeeming in connection with a business combination and our units will be immediately tradable. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, including companies seeking to consummate a business combination with companies in China, it may be more difficult for us to do so. Based upon publicly available information, as of January 15, 2008, approximately 145 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings in the United States. Of these companies, only 43 companies have consummated a business combination, while 23 other companies have announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination and seven companies have failed to consummate a business combination and have either returned or announced their intention to return proceeds to their stockholders. Accordingly, there are over 71 blank check companies with more than $11.0 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. Of these companies, 12 with more than $823 million in trust are seeking to consummate a business combination with a company in the PRC. Furthermore, there are a number of additional offerings for blank check companies that are still in the registration process but have not completed initial public offerings and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings after the date of this report and prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. Further, the fact that only 66 of such companies have either consummated a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held blank check companies like ours. We will proceed with a business combination only if public shareholders owning one share less than 35% of the shares sold in our offering exercise their redemption rights, which is a lower threshold than that of a traditional blank check company and will make it easier for us to proceed with a proposed acquisition. We will proceed with a business combination only if: (i) a majority of the ordinary shares cast at the meeting are voted in favor of the business combination, (ii) if public shareholders owning less than 35% of the total number of shares sold in our offering exercise their redemption rights in accordance with the instructions set forth in the proxy materials to be mailed to our shareholders, and (iii) a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares are voted in favor of an amendment to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association to permit our perpetual existence (as further discussed under the heading “Effecting a business combination — Redemption Rights”). Accordingly, public shareholders owning up to one share less than 35% of the total number of shares sold in our offering may exercise their redemption rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. As a result, this may have the effect of making it more likely that we could consummate a proposed business combination even when a significant number of public shareholders have voted against such transaction. We have increased the redemption percentage from 20% to one share less than 35% of the total number of shares sold in our offering in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that may otherwise be approved by a large majority of our public shareholders. While there are a few other business combination companies similar to ours which contain redemption provisions greater than 20%, the 20% threshold is customary and standard for offerings similar to ours. 22 Exercise of redemption rights must be effected pursuant to a specific process which may take time to complete and may result in the expenditure of funds by shareholders seeking redemption. A shareholder requesting redemption of his, her or its ordinary shares for cash may do so at any time after the mailing to our shareholders of the proxy statement and prior to the vote taken with respect to a proposed business combination. A shareholder would have from the time we send out our proxy statement through the vote on the business combination to tender (either electronically or through the delivery of physical stock certificates) such shareholder’s ordinary shares if he, she or it wishes to seek to exercise his, her or its redemption rights. There is a nominal cost associated with the above-referenced tendering process and the act of certificating the shares or delivering them through the DWAC system. The transfer agent will typically charge the tendering broker $35 and it would be up to the broker whether or not to pass this cost on to the redeeming shareholder. There may be additional mailing and other nominal charges depending on the particular process used to tender the ordinary shares. Although we believe the time period, costs and other potential burdens associated with the tendering process are not onerous for an average investor, this process may result in additional burdens for shareholders, including mis-delivery or any other defect in the tendering process. Additionally, if a vote on our initial business combination is held and the business combination is not approved, we may continue to try to consummate a business combination with a different target until twenty four months from the date of our prospectus. If the initial business combination is not approved or completed for any reason, public shareholders voting against our initial business combination who exercised their redemption rights would not be entitled to redeem their ordinary shares into a pro rata share of the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account. In such case, if we have required public shareholders to tender their certificates prior to the meeting, we will promptly return such certificates to the tendering public shareholder. In such case, they would then have to comply with the tendering process again for any vote against a subsequent business combination. The terms on which we may effect a business combination can be expected to become less favorable as we approach our 18 and 24 month deadlines. Pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we must effect and initiate procedures for our dissolution and liquidation and the distribution of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account, if we do not effect a business combination within 18 months after completion of our offering (or within 24 months after the completion of our offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after completion of our offering and the business combination related thereto has not been completed within such 18-month period). We have agreed with the trustee to promptly adopt a plan for the liquidation and distribution of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account, upon expiration of the time periods set forth above. Any entity with which we negotiate, or attempt to negotiate, a business combination, will, in all likelihood, be aware of these time limitations and can be expected to negotiate accordingly. In such event, we may not be able to reach an agreement with any proposed target prior to such period and any agreement that is reached may be on terms less favorable to us than if we did not have the time period restrictions set forth above. Additionally, as the 18 or 24 month time periods draw closer, we may not have the desired amount of leverage in the event any new information comes to light after entering into definitive agreements with any proposed target but prior to consummation of a business transaction. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by shareholders from the trust account as part of our dissolution and liquidation may be less than $10.00 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility and other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our shareholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. 23 Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public shareholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the $10.00 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account and net of any amounts released to us as working capital, or to fund costs associated with our automatic dissolution and liquidation if we do not consummate a business combination), due to claims of such creditors. Additionally, in the event we do not have sufficient funds available to us to consummate and complete our dissolution and liquidation, our Sponsor has agreed that either it or its affiliates will fund all costs associated with our dissolution and liquidation. Based on information we have obtained from such entities and individuals, we currently believe that such entities and individuals are capable of funding both a shortfall in our trust account and the costs associated with our dissolution and liquidation, even though we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you that our Sponsor or its affiliates will be able to satisfy those obligations. We believe the likelihood of our Sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited and Allius Ltd. having to indemnify the trust account is minimal because we will endeavor to have all vendors and prospective target businesses, as well as other entities, execute agreements with us waiving all right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the trust account. Additionally, if we are forced to declare insolvency or a case for involuntary liquidation is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable Cayman Islands’ insolvency law, and may be included in our estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over claims of our public shareholders. To the extent any such claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to public shareholders the amounts payable to them upon a liquidation of the trust account. Although our disinterested directors will bring claims on our behalf to enforce the joint and several indemnification obligations of our Sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited and Allius Ltd., there is no assurance that such claims would be successful, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public shareholders. Our Sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited and Allius Ltd. have agreed that they will be jointly and severally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, but only to the extent we have not obtained a valid and enforceable waiver from such parties. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced and our Sponsor, Noble and Allius assert that they are unable to satisfy their obligations or that they have no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our disinterested directors will cause us to take legal action against them for specific performance to enforce their indemnification obligations. Our disinterested directors will cause us to take action against our Sponsor, Noble and Allius because our board of directors has a fiduciary obligation to bring such claims and our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association require our disinterested directors to bring such claims, if required. However, we can provide no assurance that such claims would be successful. If such claims are not successful, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public shareholders may be reduced and the per share liquidation distribution could be less than the initial $10.00 per share held in the trust account. We will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. It is anticipated that, upon consummation of a business combination, all of our officers and directors will resign as officers and directors of the combined company, and that the executive officers and directors of the target company will become the executive officers and directors of our company after the business combination. Accordingly, the future success or failure of our company will depend largely upon the efforts of the senior management and board of directors of an, as yet, unidentified company. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of such management will prove to be correct. Although our current officers and directors intend to resign upon consummation of a business combination, under certain circumstances they may receive ongoing compensation following such business combination. Our board of directors and officers will not receive either from our company or the target company any finder’s fee or related payment in connection with a business combination, or condition such business combination upon any or all of them receiving or retaining any position or obtaining any ongoing compensation following the business combination through any employment or consulting agreement or similar arrangement. However, if requested by the shareholders or directors of a prospective target company, one or more members of our board of directors may remain as a director of or consultant to our company and its subsidiaries following the business combination, and in connection therewith, will receive compensation to be negotiated with the board of directors or shareholders of the target company. If we acquire control of a target business in an all-cash transaction, it is more likely that one or more current members of management would remain with us as a director, or in senior management or advisory positions. If a business combination is structured as a merger or exchange of shares whereby the shareholders of the target company were to receive significant ordinary shares in our company in connection with such business combination, it would be less likely that any of our officers or directors will remain with the combined company. If any of our management or board members are retained post-business combination in any directorship or other consulting capacity, it may result in a conflict of interest. In addition, the financial interest of our officers and directors, including any compensation arrangements, could influence their motivation in selecting, negotiating and structuring a transaction with a target business, and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. 24 Our officers and directors are or may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented to. None of our officers, directors or initial shareholders are currently affiliated with any entity whose primary business focus includes acquisitions in Asia. Each of our officers, directors and initial shareholders have agreed that, until we consummate a business combination or liquidate our trust account, they will not become associated or affiliated with any such competing entity. In addition, such persons have agreed that they will present to our board of directors any acquisition opportunity in Asia they obtain access to and which could reasonably be expected to be valued at 80% or more of the total amount placed in our trust account upon completion of our offering (excluding deferred underwriting fees), and provide us a right of first refusal to consummate such an acquisition. However, there can be no assurance that these agreements will be fully complied with in all instances. One or more of our officers, directors or initial shareholders could breach these agreements by failing to present to our board of directors one or more acquisition opportunities in Asia they obtain access to and which meets the 80% threshold. If we become aware of any such breach, our disinterested directors will cause us to bring a claim against such officer, director or initial shareholders for specific performance or damages incurred by us in connection with any such breach. However, no assurance can be given that we would be successful with respect to any such claims. For a more complete discussion of our management’s affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the sections below entitled “Management — Directors and Executive Officers” and “Management — Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors may have other conflicts of interest. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. All of our executive officers and directors own ordinary shares which will be released from escrow only if we consummate a business combination and with respect to which they are waiving their redemption and liquidation distribution rights if we liquidate. In addition, immediately prior to the date of our prospectus, our Sponsor, which is co-managed and jointly owned by Angela Ho, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, and Noble Investment Fund Limited, purchased for $1.00 each, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 5,725,000 of our ordinary shares, which insider warrants are identical to the warrants in the units being offered by our prospectus, except that (i) subject to limited exception, none of the insider warrants will be transferable or salable until after we complete a business combination; (ii) the warrants are not subject to redemption if held by the initial holders and their permitted assigns; and (iii) the warrants are exercisable on a cashless basis if held by the initial holder or its permitted assigns. Our Sponsor and Noble Investment Fund Limited each have a 50% beneficial ownership interest in the insider warrants. Although none of the insider warrants may be sold, assigned or transferred until we complete a business combination, permitted assigns include (i) the required transfer of 50% of the insider warrants to Noble Investment Fund Limited once we complete a business combination, as partial consideration for, and in reduction of, a $5,725,000 loan to be provided by Noble to enable Ho Capital Management LLC to purchase the insider warrants, or (ii) Angela Ho, a co-manager of Ho Capital Management LLC. If we are forced to liquidate, the insider warrants will become worthless. Accordingly, the financial motivation of our Sponsor and our officers and directors to consummate a business combination may affect their judgment in evaluating the merits of one or more prospective targets or result in our overpaying for a specific acquisition candidate. Although we initially intend to focus our efforts on acquiring an operating business in the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries that is located in, invests in, or provides products or services to consumers located in China, we will not be limited to a particular industry or area in Asia and may acquire control of a business operating in a particular industry and in a country in Asia that is beyond the expertise of our management. There is no specific timeframe or monetary amount established by management which will cause us to abandon our initial focus of acquiring an operating business in the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries that invests in, is located in, or provides products or services to consumers located in China, in favor of other industries or other specified countries in Asia. Early in the process of searching for a suitable target business, management intends to concentrate its focus on acquiring an operating business in the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries that invest in, is located in, or provides products or services to consumers located in China. However, we will not rule out exploring a favorable business opportunity in a different industry sector or area early during such process if an opportunity arises which management determines is in the best interests of our company and shareholders. Absent uncovering such opportunity, we intend to concentrate on our primary business and geographic focus during the first year of our business search, and only expand the scope of our search if we have been unable during such year to locate an attractive business combination in the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries that invests in, is located in, or provides products or services to consumers located in China. 25 If a favorable business opportunity presents itself to management in an industry, other than the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries, or in any one or more of the designated countries in Asia, other than China, such industry or area may be outside of management’s expertise. As a result, our ability to assess the growth potential, financial condition, experience and skill of incumbent management, competitive position, regulatory environment and other criteria in evaluating a business opportunity outside our primary business focus or outside of China may be adversely affected by virtue of our limited expertise. For a more detailed discussion of management’s process for searching for and selecting a target business, see “Effecting a business combination — Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination”. If we determine to seek to acquire control of a target business which is not operating in the leisure and hospitality or financial services industries that is located in, invests in, or provides products or services to consumers located in China and outside of the expertise of our management, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully complete such an acquisition and could result in the liquidation of the trust account and dissolution of our company. Our shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Section 172 of our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provides that we will continue in existence only until eighteen months from the consummation of our offering or until twenty-four months if a letter of intent, an agreement in principle, or a definitive agreement to complete a business combination has been entered into, except if holders of 95% or more of our outstanding ordinary shares approve an extension of such time period. If we have not completed a business combination by such date, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. At this time, we will become subject to a voluntary liquidation procedure under the Companies Law (2007 Revision) of the Cayman Islands (the “Companies Law”). Our liquidator would give at least 21 days’ notice to creditors of his intention to make a distribution by notifying known creditors (if any) who have not submitted claims and by placing a public advertisement in the Cayman Islands Official Gazette, although in practice this notice requirement need not necessarily delay the distribution of assets if the liquidator is satisfied that no creditors would be adversely affected as a consequence of a distribution before this time period has expired. We anticipate that the trust account should be liquidated shortly following expiration of the 21-day period. As soon as the affairs of our company are fully wound-up, the liquidator must lay his final report and accounts before a final general meeting which must be called by a public notice at least one month before it takes place. After the final meeting, the liquidator must make a return to the registrar confirming the date on which the meeting was held and three months after the date of such filing our company is dissolved. Additionally, in any liquidation proceedings of our company under Cayman Islands’ law, the funds held in our trust account may be included in our estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders. To the extent any such claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders the liquidation amounts payable to them. Furthermore, a liquidator of our company might seek to hold a shareholder liable to contribute to our estate to the extent of distributions received by them pursuant to the dissolution of the trust account beyond the date of dissolution of the trust account. Cayman Islands law does not limit the amount of time available to a liquidator to recover funds for the estate from shareholders that received distributions. Additionally, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our shareholders amounts owed to them by us. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims for having paid public shareholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. If we are unable to consummate a transaction within the necessary time periods, our purpose and powers will be limited to winding up and ultimately dissolving. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will distribute the amount in our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our automatic dissolution and liquidation. Concurrently, we propose that our liabilities and obligations will be paid from funds not held in trust, although we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. If there are insufficient funds held outside the trust account for such purpose, our Sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited and Allius Ltd. have agreed that they will be jointly and severally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. We have not independently verified whether our Sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited or Allius Ltd. have sufficient funds to satisfy their respective indemnity obligations and, therefore, we cannot assure you that they would be able to satisfy these obligations. 26 We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination. Pursuant to, among other documents, our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, if we do not either complete a business combination, enter into a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to acquire a target company within 18 months after the consummation of our offering, or within 24 months after the consummation of our offering if the extension criteria described above have been satisfied, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Upon dissolution, we will distribute to all of our public shareholders, in proportion to their respective equity interest, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account (net of taxes payable and that portion of the interest earned previously released to us). Our initial shareholders, as well as our Sponsor who purchased insider warrants immediately prior to the date of our prospectus, have waived their rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to their initial shares and the insider warrants will expire worthless upon our liquidation and dissolution. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of our dissolution and liquidation. Our Sponsor, Noble Investment Fund Limited and Allius Ltd. have agreed to indemnify us, jointly and severally, for these expenses to the extent there are insufficient funds available from the proceeds not held in the trust account and interest released to us. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will liquidate the investments constituting the trust account and will turn over the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public shareholders as part of our dissolution and liquidation. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from interest released to us from the trust account if available, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot give you assurances that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. The amounts held in the trust account may be subject to claims by third parties, such as vendors, prospective target business or other entities, if we do not obtain waivers in advance from such third parties prior to such parties providing us with services or entering into arrangements with them. These procedures may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our automatic dissolution and liquidation. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may elect to redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units, without the prior consent of any third party, at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price thereafter at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. The foregoing does not apply to the warrants included as part of the 5,725,000 insider warrants purchased immediately prior to the date of our prospectus, as such warrants are not subject to redemption while held by the initial holder or any permitted transferee of such initial holder. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants and sell the underlying shares. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrant only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to our ordinary shares underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities law of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants following completion of our offering to the extent required by federal securities law, and we intend to comply with such undertaking, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. The warrants, including the warrants included in the representative’s unit purchase option, may expire unexercised or unredeemed if there is no effective registration statement (as required by federal securities laws). In addition, there are no circumstances under which we will be required to net-cash settle the warrants, including the warrants included in the representative’s unit purchase option, and a purchaser, including the representative upon exercise of the unit purchase option, may pay the full unit purchase price solely for the shares included in the units. Moreover, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the shares underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. 27 We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. Immediately after our offering and the sale of the insider warrants (including the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option), there were 17,825,000 authorized but unissued ordinary shares available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the underwriters’ unit purchase option) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock were available for issuance. If more than 20% but not more than one share less than 35% of the shares owned by our public shareholders vote against a proposed business combination and exercise their redemption rights, we will still be required to utilize 80% of the amount in our trust account for the business combination (excluding deferred underwriting fees). In the event that such redemption leaves us with an insufficient amount of funds to consummate a proposed business combination then, we may issue a significant amount of our debt or equity securities to the sellers of such businesses and/or seek to raise additional funds through a private offering of debt or equity securities. Although we have no commitments as of the date of our offering to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional ordinary or preferred shares, or a combination of ordinary and preferred shares, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional ordinary shares or any number of our preferred shares: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in our offering; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. Additionally, the financial services industry is capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance acquisitions and working capital needs. If we finance the purchase of assets or operations through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. For a more complete discussion of the possible structure of a business combination, see the section entitled “Effecting a business combination — Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination.” We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating a business combination. We will pay approximately $50,000 (not including up to $2,000,000 of interest we may earn on funds in the trust account, which we are entitled to receive in order to cover our operating expenses and our costs associated with our dissolution and liquidation if we do not consummate a business combination) from the proceeds of our offering and the sale of the insider warrants to cover our operating expenses for the next 24 months and to cover the expenses incurred in connection with a business combination. This amount is based on management’s estimates of the costs needed to fund our operations for the next 24 months and consummate a business combination. Those estimates may prove inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with a business combination or if we expend a significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of a business combination that is not consummated. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our management or the initial shareholders or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing and our initial shareholders and management are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate prior to consummating a business combination. 28 None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company which could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team to identify and complete a business combination using the proceeds of our offering and the sale of the insider warrants. Our management’s lack of experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and force us to dissolve and liquidate the trust account to our public shareholders in an automatic dissolution and liquidation. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. For a discussion of potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the section entitled “Management — Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. All of our officers and directors own ordinary shares, and our Sponsor, an affiliate of our chairman of the board of directors, own insider warrants, which will not participate in the liquidation of the trust account in the event of our automatic dissolution and liquidation; therefore such persons may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own stock in our company, and our Sponsor, an entity that is co-managed and jointly owned by Angela Ho, our chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors, and Noble Investment Fund Limited, owns our insider warrants purchased for $5,725,000 immediately prior to the date of our prospectus. Angela Ho and Noble Investment Fund Limited each have a 50% beneficial ownership interest in the insider warrants held in the name of our Sponsor. Our officers and directors and our Sponsor have waived their right to the liquidation of the trust account in the event of our automatic dissolution and liquidation with respect to those shares upon the liquidation of the trust account to our public shareholders if we are unable to complete a business combination. The shares and warrants owned by these persons (including our officers and directors) will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of these officers and directors and our Sponsor may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, these officers and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interest. Our initial shareholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount available outside the trust account unless the business combination is consummated and therefore they may have a conflict of interest. Our initial shareholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount available outside the trust account, unless the business combination is consummated. The amount of available proceeds is based on management estimates of the capital needed to fund our operations for the next 24 months and to consummate a business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with a business combination or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an acquisition that is not consummated. The financial interest of such persons could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the shareholders’ best interest. 29 If our ordinary shares become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of less than $5,000,000 and our ordinary shares have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our ordinary shares may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our ordinary shares become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. It is probable our initial business combination will be with a single target business, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Additionally, we may face obstacles to completing simultaneous acquisitions. Our initial business combination must be with a business or businesses with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $3,450,000 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of such acquisition, which amount is required as a condition to the consummation of our initial business combination. In addition, if more than 20% but not more than one share less than 35% of the shares owned by our public shareholders vote against a proposed business combination and exercise their redemption rights, we will still be required to utilize 80% of the amount in our trust account for the business combination. In the event that such redemption leaves us with an insufficient amount of funds to consummate a proposed business combination then, we may issue a significant amount of our debt or equity securities to the sellers of such businesses and/or seek to raise additional funds through a private offering of debt or equity securities. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not entered into any such fund raising arrangement and have no current intention of doing so (other than the 5,725,000 insider warrants for an aggregate of $5,725,000). We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of this and various other factors, including the amount of funds available to consummate a business combination, possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which could include attempting to coordinate the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings with multiple target businesses. In addition, we may not have sufficient management, financial and other resources to effectively investigate the business and affairs of multiple acquisition candidates simultaneously or to negotiate the terms of multiple acquisition agreements at the same time which could result in a failure to properly evaluate multiple acquisitions. Further, we would also be exposed to the risk that conditions to closings with respect to the acquisition of one or more of the target businesses would not be satisfied bringing the fair market value of the initial business combination below the required fair market value of 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $3,450,000 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of the underwriters) threshold. Accordingly, while it is possible we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business, we are more likely to choose a single target business if deciding between one target business meeting such 80% threshold and comparable multiple target business candidates collectively meeting the 80% threshold. Consequently, it is probable that, unless the purchase price consists substantially of our equity, we will have the ability to complete only the initial business combination with the proceeds of our offering and the sale of the insider warrants. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. 30 The ability of our shareholders to exercise their redemption rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek shareholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public shareholder the right to have such shareholder’s ordinary shares redeemed for cash if the shareholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their redemption rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of a proposed business combination if our board of directors independently determines that the target business has sufficient fair market value. The initial target business that we acquire must have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $3,450,000 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of such acquisition. There is no limitation on our ability to raise funds privately or through loans that would allow us to acquire a target business or businesses with a fair market value in an amount considerably greater than 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $3,450,000 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of such acquisition. We have not had any preliminary discussions, or made any agreements or arrangements, with respect to financing arrangements with any third party. The fair market value of such business will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book value, and the price for which comparable businesses have recently been sold. If our board is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria. Since any opinion, if obtained, would merely state that fair market value meets the 80% threshold described above, it is not anticipated that copies of such opinion would be distributed to our shareholders, although copies will be provided to shareholders who request it. If we do obtain the opinion of an investment banking firm, a summary of the opinion will be contained in the proxy statement that will be mailed to shareholders in connection with obtaining approval of the business combination, and the investment banking firm will consent to the inclusion of their report in our proxy statement. In addition, information about how shareholders will be able to obtain a copy of the opinion from us will be contained in the proxy statement. However, we do not anticipate that shareholders will be entitled to rely on any such opinion. If the independent investment banking firm takes the view that shareholders may not rely on the opinion, we will not consider such a view as a factor in deciding which investment banking firm to hire. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of a proposed business combination if our board of directors independently determines that the target business has sufficient fair market value. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our offering and the sale of the insider warrants will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, inasmuch as we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our offering and the sale of the insider warrants prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting shareholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or shareholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our initial shareholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring shareholder vote. Upon consummation of our offering our initial shareholders (including all of our officers and directors) will collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Our officers, directors and initial shareholders, have advised us that that they do not intend to purchase any units in our offering. However, our officers, directors and our initial shareholders, may make any purchases either in the open market, in private placements or other private transactions following the offering, although we are not aware that any of such persons or entities intend to do so. While we cannot be certain of all of the factors that would cause our existing officers, directors or shareholders to purchase our securities, we believe that some of the factors they would consider are: (i) the trading price of our securities, (ii) their aggregate investment in our securities, (iii) whether it appears that a substantial number of public shareholders are voting against a proposed business combination, and (iv) their interest in the target business once the target business has been identified. Any shares acquired by such individuals in our offering or in the aftermarket will be voted in favor of the business combination. Accordingly, any purchase of our shares by our officers and directors, including all of our initial shareholders, in our offering or in the aftermarket could influence the result of a vote submitted to our shareholders in connection with a business combination by making it more likely that a business combination would be approved. 31 Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of shareholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, initially only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial shareholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial shareholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our initial shareholders and their affiliates and relatives are not prohibited from purchasing units in our offering or in the open market. If they do, we cannot assure you that our initial shareholders will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. Since our initial shareholders will lose their entire investment in us if a business combination is not consummated and may be required to pay costs associated with our liquidation, our initial shareholders may purchase ordinary shares from shareholders who would otherwise choose to vote against a proposed business combination or exercise their redemption rights in connection with such business combination. Our initial shareholders own ordinary shares that will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. In addition, immediately prior to the date of our prospectus, our Sponsor purchased warrants exercisable for our ordinary shares (for an aggregate of $5,725,000), which will also be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. Given the interest that our initial shareholders have in a business combination being consummated, it is possible that our initial shareholders will acquire securities from public shareholders (in the open market and/or in privately negotiated transactions) who have elected to redeem their ordinary shares in order to change their vote and insure that the business combination will be approved (which could result in a business combination being approved even if, after the announcement of the business combination, 35% or more of our public shareholders would have elected to exercise their redemption rights, or more than 50% of our public shareholders would have voted against the business combination, but for the purchases made by our initial shareholders). Any privately negotiated transaction with a shareholder would include a contractual acknowledgement that such shareholder, although still the record holder of our ordinary shares is no longer the beneficial owner thereof and therefore agrees to vote such ordinary shares as directed by our initial shareholders. In the event our initial shareholders purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from public shareholders who have already cast votes against a proposed business combination and requested redemption of their shares, such selling shareholders would be required to revoke their prior votes against the proposed business combination and to revoke their prior elections to redeem their shares and to cast new votes in favor of the proposed business combination. The revocation of prior negative votes and substitution therefor of votes in favor of the proposed business combination would have the effect of reducing redemptions and increasing votes in favor of the proposed business combination, thereby making it more likely that a proposed business combination would be approved. We will be dependent upon interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target company and consummation of a business combination. Of the net proceeds of our offering and the $5,725,000 proceeds of the sale of the insider warrants, only $50,000 is estimated to be available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We will be dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to search for a target company and consummate a business combination. While we are entitled to a portion of the interest earned on the trust account in excess of the amount necessary to allow for a $10.00 per share liquidation price to our public shareholders for such purpose, if interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to complete a business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our insiders or others or be forced to dissolve, liquidate and wind up. 32 The number of potential target businesses that we may seek to acquire may be limited by the fact that any selected target business will be required to provide audited financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles. In accordance with requirements of United States Federal securities laws, in order to seek shareholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent that a proposed target business we deem to be attractive does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP, and audited in accordance with U.S. GAAS, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses which we may acquire. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with the sale of the 10,000,000 units, we offered and sold, immediately prior to the date of our prospectus to our Sponsor, for $1.00 each, warrants to purchase 5,725,000 ordinary shares. In addition, we have sold to the underwriters an option to purchase up to an aggregate of 475,000 units for $12.50 per unit (which includes an aggregate of 475,000 ordinary shares and 475,000 warrants to purchase ordinary shares). To the extent we issue ordinary shares to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and reduce the value of the ordinary shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the ordinary shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our initial shareholders (including our Sponsor who purchased the insider warrants) exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial shareholders, including our Sponsor purchased insider warrants immediately prior to the date of our prospectus, are entitled to require us to register the resale of their ordinary shares at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow. With respect to the ordinary shares underlying the 5,725,000 insider warrants sold to our Sponsor, our Sponsor is entitled to require us to register the resale of their ordinary shares upon our announcement of the entering into a definitive agreement to complete a business combination. If such initial shareholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their ordinary shares (including those 5,725,000 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the insider warrants), then there will be an additional 8,225,000 ordinary shares eligible for trading in the public market and we will bear the costs of registering such securities. The presence of this additional number of ordinary shares eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the shareholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our ordinary shares. A market for our securities has only existed since January 16, 2008 and a market for our securities may not develop, which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. A market for our securities has only existed since January 16, 2008. Therefore, shareholders should be aware that they cannot benefit from information about prior market history as to their decisions to invest which means they are at further risk if they invest. In addition, the price of the securities, after the offering, can vary due to general economic conditions and forecasts, our general business condition and the release of our financial reports. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Although our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain that listing. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. If we are unable to meet those stricter initial listing requirements, our securities would not be listed on the American Stock Exchange and might not be listed on any securities exchange. 33 If we are unable to maintain the listing of our securities on the American Stock Exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · decreased trading liquidity and a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our ordinary shares are “penny stock,” with the consequences described in “If our ordinary shares become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be greatly reduced”; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. We may be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, because, following the offering and prior to the consummation of a business combination, we may be viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities (in this case United States government securities as described below) having a value exceeding 40% of our total assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted which, among other problems, may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. Such restrictions include: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. However, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Our offering is not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, our dissolution and return of the funds held in this trust account to our public shareholders as part of our automatic dissolution and liquidation. Notwithstanding our belief that we are not required to comply with the requirements of such act, we may be considered to be an investment company and thus required to comply with such act. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. Currently, only one member of our board of directors is considered “independent” under the rules of the American Stock Exchange and, if we are unable to recruit additional independent directors within the timeframe specified in such rules, our securities may be delisted. As of the date of this report, we believe that only one of our directors, Stuart Sundlun, is “independent” as that term is defined in the Amex Company Guide. Rule 809(b) of the Amex Company Guide provides a phase-in schedule for companies listing on the exchange in conjunction with an initial public offering. Based on the schedule set out in this rule, we only need one independent director to serve on our audit, nominating and compensation committees at the closing of our offering and at the time of listing on the exchange. However, we must (i) within 90 days after the closing of our offering, add at least one more independent director so as to have a majority on a three person audit and compensation committee; and (ii) within one year after the closing of our offering, add enough additional independent directors so that a majority of our board and 100% of the members of the audit and compensation committees are “independent”. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the phase-in schedule set forth in Rule 809(b). If we are unable to comply with Rule 809(b), the American Stock Exchange may delist our securities. Since we have not currently selected a prospective target business with which to complete a business combination, investors in our offering are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the target business’ operations. Since we have not yet identified a prospective target, investors in our offering have no current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’ operations. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company, an entity in its development stage and/or an entity subject to unknown or unmanageable liabilities, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors in our offering than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. For a more complete discussion of our selection of a target business, see the section entitled “Effecting a business combination — We have not identified a target business.” 34 Since we are not an operating company, the pricing of the units in our offering is relatively arbitrary. Prior to our offering there has been no public market for any of our securities. The public offering price of the units and the terms of the warrants were negotiated between us and Maxim Group LLC. Factors considered in determining the prices and terms of the units, including the ordinary shares and warrants underlying the units, include: · the history and prospects of companies whose principal business is the acquisition of other companies; · prior offerings of those companies; · our prospects for acquiring an operating business at attractive values; · our capital structure; · an assessment of our management and their experience in identifying operating companies; · general conditions of the securities markets at the time of the offering; and · other factors as were deemed relevant. However, although these factors were considered, the determination of our offering price is more arbitrary than the pricing of securities for an operating company in a particular industry since the underwriters are unable to compare our financial results and prospects with those of public companies operating in the same industry. The inability of the sellers of companies we may acquire to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us under our acquisition agreements could increase our liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We intend to negotiate as a term of our acquisition agreements that the respective sellers will agree to retain responsibility for and indemnify us against damages resulting from certain third-party claims or other liabilities. However, there may be instances in which we determine to ultimately enter into an acquisition agreement without such seller indemnification obligations, such as in purchases of assets out of bankruptcy or purchases of certain hospitality-related assets. The lack of seller indemnification obligations or the failure of any seller to satisfy its obligations with respect to claims and retained liabilities covered by the acquisition agreements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position because claimants may successfully assert that we are liable for those claims and/or retained liabilities. In addition, we expect that certain obligations of the sellers to indemnify us will terminate upon expiration of the applicable indemnification period and will not cover damages in excess of the applicable coverage limit. The assertion of third-party claims after the expiration of the applicable indemnification period or in excess of the applicable coverage limit or the failure of any seller to satisfy its indemnification obligations with respect to breaches of its representations and warranties, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Risks of Doing Business in China and Vietnam If we acquire control of a target business through contractual arrangements with one or more operating businesses in China or Vietnam, such contracts may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of such businesses and may be difficult to enforce. We will only acquire a business or businesses that, upon the completion of our initial business combination, will be our majority-owned subsidiaries and will be neither investment companies nor companies excluded from the definition of investment company by Sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940. However, the governments of the PRC and Vietnam have restricted or limited foreign ownership of certain kinds of assets and companies operating in certain industries. The industry groups that are restricted are wide ranging, including certain aspects of telecommunications, advertising, food production, and heavy equipment manufacturers, for example. In addition there can be restrictions on the foreign ownership of businesses that are determined from time to time to be in “important industries” that may affect the national economic security in the PRC and Vietnam, or having “famous brand names” or “well established brand names”. Subject to the review requirements of the Ministry of Commerce in the PRC and other relevant agencies in the PRC and Vietnam for acquisitions of assets and companies in the PRC and Vietnam and subject to the various percentage ownership limitations that exist from time to time, acquisitions involving foreign investors and parties in the various restricted categories of assets and industries may nonetheless sometimes be consummated using contractual arrangements with permitted Chinese or Vietnamese parties. To the extent that such agreements are employed, they may be for control of specific assets such as intellectual property or control of blocks of the equity ownership interests of a company which may not be subject to the merger and acquisition regulations mentioned above since these types of arrangements typically do not involve a change of equity ownership in a PRC or Vietnamese operating company, injure a third party or affect the social public interest. The agreements would be designed to provide our company with the economic benefits of and control over the subject assets or equity interests similar to the rights of full ownership, while leaving the technical ownership in the hands of Chinese or Vietnamese parties who would be our nominees and, therefore, may exempt the transaction from the merger and acquisition regulations, including the application process required thereunder. However, since there has been limited implementation guidance provided with respect to the merger and acquisition regulations, there can be no assurance that the relevant government agency would not apply them to a business combination effected through contractual arrangements. If such an agency determines that such an application should have been made consequences may include levying fines, revoking business and other licenses, requiring restructure of ownership or operations and requiring discontinuation of any portion of all of the acquired business. The agreements likely also would provide for increased ownership or full ownership and control by us when and if permitted under PRC or Vietnamese laws and regulations. If we choose to effect a business combination that employs the use of these types of control arrangements, we may have difficulty in enforcing our rights. Therefore these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with the same economic benefits, accounting consolidation or control over a target business as would direct ownership. For example, if the target business or any other entity fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend substantial resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under Chinese or Vietnamese law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure will be sufficient to off-set the cost of enforcement and may adversely affect the benefits we expect to receive from the business combination. 35 Moreover, we expect that the contractual arrangements upon which we would be relying would be governed by Chinese or Vietnamese law and would be the only basis of providing resolution of disputes which may arise through either arbitration or litigation in China or Vietnam. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with Chinese or Vietnamese law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with Chinese or Vietnamese legal procedures. Uncertainties in the Chinese or Vietnamese legal systems could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert the effective level of control or receive the full economic benefits of full direct ownership over the target business. Contractual arrangements we enter into with potential future subsidiaries and affiliated entities or acquisitions of offshore entities that conduct PRC or Vietnamese operations through affiliates in China or Vietnam may be subject to a high level of scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities. Under PRC and Vietnamese law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC or Vietnamese tax authorities. If any of the transactions we enter into with potential future subsidiaries and affiliated entities are found not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC or Vietnamese law, the PRC or Vietnamese tax authorities have the authority to disallow any tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of such possible future PRC or Vietnamese entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the PRC or Vietnamese tax authorities that we are ineligible for any such tax savings, or that any of our possible future affiliated entities are not eligible for tax exemptions, would substantially increase our possible future taxes and thus reduce our net income and the value of your investment. In addition, in the event that in connection with an acquisition of an offshore entity that conducted its PRC or Vietnamese operations through affiliates in China or Vietnam, the sellers of such entities failed to pay any taxes required under PRC or Vietnamese law, the PRC or Vietnamese tax authorities could require us to withhold and pay the tax, together with late-payment interest and penalties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. If the PRC or Vietnamese government finds that the agreements in which we acquire control through contractual arrangements by establishing the structure for operating our China or Vietnamese businesses do not comply with PRC or Vietnamese governmental restrictions on foreign investment, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to significant penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. PRC and/or Vietnamese regulations currently prohibit or restrict foreign ownership in certain “important industries,” including telecommunications, advertising, food production and heavy equipment. There are uncertainties under PRC and/or Vietnamese regulations whether obtaining a majority interest through contractual arrangements will comply with regulations prohibiting or restricting foreign ownership in certain industries. For example, the PRC may apply restrictions in other industries in the future. In addition, there can be restrictions on the foreign ownership of businesses that are determined from time to time to be in “important industries” that may affect the national economic security or those in the PRC having “famous Chinese brand names” or “well established Chinese brand names.” 36 If we or any of our potential future subsidiaries or affiliated entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC or Vietnamese laws or regulations (for example, if we are deemed to be holding equity interests in certain of our affiliated entities in which direct foreign ownership is prohibited) the relevant PRC or Vietnamese regulatory authorities might have the discretion to: · revoke the business and operating licenses of possible future PRC or Vietnamese subsidiaries or affiliates; · confiscate relevant income and impose fines and other penalties; · discontinue or restrict possible future PRC or Vietnamese subsidiaries’ or affiliates’ operations; · require us or possible future PRC or Vietnamese subsidiaries or affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; · restrict or prohibit our use of the proceeds of our offering to finance our businesses and operations in China or Vietnam; or · impose conditions or requirements with which we or possible future PRC or Vietnamese subsidiaries or affiliates may not be able to comply. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the relevant PRC or Vietnamese regulatory authorities may impose further penalties. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our operations. In many cases, existing regulations with regard to investments from foreign investors and domestic private capital lack detailed explanations and operational procedures, and are subject to interpretation, which may change over time. We thus cannot be certain how the regulations will be applied to our business, either currently or in the future. Moreover, new regulations may be adopted or the interpretation of existing regulations may change, any of which could result in similar penalties, resulting in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Potential future PRC or Vietnamese targets or strategic partners may have previously engaged or may engage in activities without appropriate licenses or approvals or outside the authorized scope of their business licenses or permitted activities. This could subject those companies to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Potential future targets or strategic partners may have previously engaged or may currently engage in activities without appropriate licenses or approvals or outside the authorized scope of their business licenses or permitted activities. If we or our strategic partners do not receive any necessary licenses or approvals, broaden the authorized business scope or narrow the scope of the activities as appropriate, we or the relevant strategic partner may have to cease operations or contract our operations to third parties who hold the appropriate licenses. In addition, counterparties to contracts we make when engaging in activities that require licenses may legally default on those contracts if we or the relevant strategic partner do not possess the appropriate licenses. The occurrence of any of these events would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. PRC or Vietnamese authorities may refuse to grant any licenses we may seek. For companies that exceeded the scope of their business licenses or permitted activities or operated without a license or needed approval in the past but are now compliant, as well as for any companies that may currently operate without the appropriate license or approval or outside the scope of their business license or permitted activities, the relevant PRC or Vietnamese authorities have the authority to impose fines or other penalties, sometimes as much as five to ten times the amount of the illegal revenues and may require the disgorgement of profits or revocation of the business license. Due to the inconsistent nature of regulatory enforcements in the PRC or Vietnam, those of our possible future PRC or Vietnamese strategic partners that exceeded the scope of their business licenses or permitted activities or operated without the appropriate licenses or approvals in the past or do so in the future may be subject to the above fines or penalties, including the disgorgement of profits or revocation of the business license of one or more of these companies. These fines or penalties may have a material adverse effect on our business. As a result of merger and acquisition regulations which became effective on September 8, 2006 relating to acquisitions of assets and equity interests of Chinese companies by foreign persons, it is expected that acquisitions will take longer and be subject to economic scrutiny by the PRC government authorities such that we may not be able to complete a transaction, negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders, or sufficiently protect shareholder’s interests in a transaction. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC), the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC), the China Securities Regulatory Committee (CSRC), and the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006 (M&A Rules). These comprehensive rules govern the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of its assets or its equity interests and by which a Chinese company may obtain public trading of its securities on a securities exchange outside the PRC. 37 Although prior to September 8, 2006 there was a complex series of regulations administered by a combination of provincial and centralized agencies in place for acquisition approval of Chinese enterprises by foreign investors, the M&A Rules have largely centralized and expanded the approval process to MOFCOM, SAIC, SAFE or its branch offices, SASAC, and the CSRC. The M&A Rules established, among other things, additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance when a foreign investor acquires equity or assets of a PRC domestic enterprise. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the aforementioned agencies, some of which must be made within strict time limits and require approvals from one or more of the aforementioned agencies. The application process has been supplemented to require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, introducing aspects of economic and substantive analysis of the target business and the acquirer and the terms of the transaction by MOFCOM and the other governing agencies as well as an evaluation of compliance with legal requirements. The application process for approval now includes submissions of an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, depending on the structure of the transaction. An employee settlement plan for the target company shall also be included in the application. The M&A Rules also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets. The regulations require that in certain transaction structures, the consideration must be paid within strict time periods, generally not in excess of a year. Because the Chinese authorities have been concerned with offshore transactions which converted domestic companies into foreign investment enterprises (FIEs) in order to take advantage of certain benefits, including reduced taxation, in China, the M&A Rules require new foreign sourced capital of not less than 25% of the domestic company’s post-acquisition capital in order to obtain FIE treatment. Accordingly, if a sufficient amount of foreign capital is not infused into the domestic company, it will not be eligible to obtain FIE treatment. In the agreement reached by the foreign acquirer, target, creditors and other parties, there must be no harm to third parties and the public interest in the allocation of assets and liabilities being assumed or acquired. These aspects of the regulations will limit our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Therefore, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with terms that will satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders interests in an acquisition of a Chinese business or assets. It is expected that compliance with the regulations will be more time consuming than in the past, will be more costly for the Chinese parties and will permit the government much more extensive evaluation and control over the terms of the transaction. Therefore, acquisitions in China may not be able to be completed because the terms of the transaction may not satisfy aspects of the approval process and may not be completed, even if approved, if they are not consummated within the time permitted by the approvals granted. If the PRC or Vietnam do not continue their policy of economic reforms, it could, among other things, result in an increase in tariffs and trade restrictions on products we ultimately produce or sell following a business combination. The PRC and Vietnamese governments have been reforming their economic systems. The economies of the PRC and Vietnam have historically been nationalistic, “planned economies,” meaning they have functioned and produced according to governmental plans and pre-set targets or quotas. However, in recent years, the PRC and Vietnamese governments have implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership in business enterprises. Although we believe that the changes adopted by the PRC and Vietnamese governments have had a positive effect on the economic development of each country, additional changes are still needed to be made. For example, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC and Vietnam are still owned by the government. Additionally, the government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. We cannot predict the timing or extent of any future economic reforms that may be proposed. A recent positive economic change has been the PRC’s entry into the World Trade Organization, the sole global international organization dealing with the rules of trade between nations. It is believed that the PRC’s entry will ultimately result in a reduction on tariffs for industrial products, a reduction in trade restrictions and an increase in trading with the United States. However, the PRC has not fully complied with all of its WTO obligations to date, including fully opening its markets to American goods and easing the current trade imbalance between the two countries. If actions are not taken to rectify these problems, trade relations may be strained and this may have a negative impact on China’s economy. 38 If relations between the United States and the PRC or Vietnam deteriorate, it could cause potential target businesses or their goods or services to become less attractive. The relationship between the United States and the PRC or Vietnam is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. For instance, the United States recently announced its intention to impose new short-term quotas on Chinese clothing imports, which may be extended for several years. Such import quotas may adversely affect political relations between the two countries and result in retaliatory countermeasures by the PRC in industries that may affect our ultimate target business. Relations may also be compromised if the U.S. becomes a more vocal advocate of Taiwan or proceeds to sell certain military weapons and technology to Taiwan. Changes in political conditions in the PRC or Vietnam and changes in the state of relations with the U.S. are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or their goods and services to become less attractive. Because we are not limited to any specific industry, there is no basis for investors in our offering to evaluate the possible extent of any impact on our ultimate operations if relations are strained between the PRC or Vietnam and the United States. If the PRC or Vietnam impose restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in the PRC or Vietnam could be severely curtailed, which could lead to a significant decrease in our profitability following a business combination. While the economies of the PRC and Vietnam have experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of each country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. If prices for the products of our ultimate target business rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC and Vietnam have imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. If similar restrictions are imposed, it may lead to a slowing of economic growth. Because we are not limited to any specific industry, the ultimate industry that we operate in may be effected more severely by such a slowing of economic growth. Any devaluation of currencies used in the PRC or Vietnam could negatively impact our target business’ results of operations and could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Because our objective is to acquire control a target business having its primary operating facilities located in Asia, including the PRC or Vietnam, and because substantially all revenues and income would be received in a foreign currency such as Renminbi or Dong, the main currency used in the PRC and Vietnam, respectively, the dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, would be adversely affected by reductions in the value of the Renminbi or Dong. The value of the Renminbi and Dong fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s and Vietnam’s political and economic conditions. In the PRC, for example, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies such as the dollar has been generally based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which are set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. The official exchange rate has remained stable over the past several years. However, any devaluation may materially and adversely affect a target business. Recently, the United States and other nations have been pressing China to increase the value of the Renminbi against the dollar and other currencies. If the Renminbi or Dong appreciates in value against the dollar prior to the consummation of a business combination, the cost of a target business as measured in dollars will increase. Because Chinese or Vietnamese law will govern almost all of any target business material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within the PRC or Vietnam, or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Chinese or Vietnamese law will govern almost all of our target business’ material agreements, many of which may be with Chinese or Vietnamese governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of the PRC or Vietnam. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in the PRC or Vietnam may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The Chinese and Vietnamese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, to the extent that our target business’ material agreements are with Chinese or Vietnamese governmental agencies, we may not be able to enforce or obtain a remedy from such agencies due to sovereign immunity, in which the government is deemed to be immune from civil lawsuit or criminal prosecution. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, some of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets will be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Moreover, we have been advised that the PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the Federal securities laws. 39 Many industries in China and Vietnam, including the leisure and hospitality and financial services industries, are subject to government regulations that limit or prohibit foreign investments in such industries, which may limit the potential number of acquisition candidates or our ability to grow and sustain such business which may require us to seek additional financing. The Chinese and Vietnamese governments have imposed regulations in various industries, including the leisure and hospitality and financial services industries, that would limit foreign investors’ equity ownership or prohibit foreign investments altogether in companies that operate in such industries. As a result, the number of potential acquisition candidates available to us may be limited or our ability to grow and sustain the business which we will ultimately operate will be adversely affected. In such event, we may be required to seek additional financing which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Exchange controls that exist in the PRC may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination, we will be subject to the PRC’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (SAFE) regulates the conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules (1996), as amended. Under these rules and regulations, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (FIEs) are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs.” Following a business combination, we will likely be an FIE as a result of our ownership structure. With such registration certificates, which need to be renewed annually, FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “basic account” and “capital account.” Currency translation within the scope of the “basic account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct investment, loans and securities, still require approval of the SAFE. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of the PRC. If certain exemptions within the PRC regarding withholding taxes are removed, we may be required to deduct Chinese corporate withholding taxes from dividends we may pay to our shareholders following a business combination. Under the PRC’s current tax laws, regulations and rulings, companies are exempt from paying withholding taxes with respect dividends paid to shareholders outside of the PRC. However, if the foregoing exemption is removed in the future following a business combination, we may be required to deduct certain amounts from dividends we may pay to our shareholders to pay corporate withholding taxes. The current rate imposed on corporate withholding taxes is 20%, or 10% for individuals and entities for those countries that entered into the Protocol of Avoidance of double taxation within the PRC. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws by the government of the PRC could significantly impact our return to our investors. If the United States imposes trade sanctions on the PRC due to its current currency policies, our target business’ ability to succeed in the international markets may be diminished. The PRC currently “pegs” its currency to the United States dollar. This means that each unit of Chinese currency has a set ratio for which it may be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. This policy is currently under review by policy makers in the United States. Trade groups in the United States have blamed the cheap value of the Chinese currency for causing job losses in American factories, giving exporters an unfair advantage and making its imports expensive. There is increasing pressure for the PRC to change its currency policies to provide for its currency to float freely on international markets, although the PRC has not indicated any intention to change its current policies. As a result, Congress is considering the enactment of a bill that would require the United States treasury secretary to report to Congress whether the PRC is manipulating its currency to gain a trade advantage. If Congress deems this to be the case, tariffs would be imposed on Chinese imports in addition to those already in force. If an additional tariff is imposed, it is possible that China-based companies will no longer maintain significant price advantages over foreign companies, including the United States, on their goods and services. If the PRC is pressured to change its existing currency policies or if the United States or other countries enact laws to penalize the PRC for its existing currency policies, our target companies are likely to be adversely affected since the current competitive advantages that exist as a result of existing currency policies will cease. 40 Doing business in China or Vietnam involves various risks including internal and international political risks, evolving national economic policies as well as financial accounting standards, expropriation and the potential for a reversal in economic conditions. We may acquire control of one or more businesses located in the Peoples Republic of China or Vietnam. The governments of the Peoples Republic of China and Vietnam have been reforming their respective economic systems. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress. These policies and measures may from time to time be modified or revised. Adverse changes in economic policies of the Chinese or Vietnamese governments or in the laws and regulations, if any, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China or Vietnam and could adversely affect our business operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Chinese or Vietnamese currency and the United States dollar could adversely affect our operating results. The functional currency of our operations in China and Vietnam would be “Renminbi” and “Dong”, respectively. However, results of our operations are translated at average exchange rates into United States dollars for purposes of reporting results. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Fluctuations may adversely affect the comparability of period-to-period results. Although we may use hedging techniques in the future (which we currently do not use), we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could cause our profits, and therefore our stock prices, to decline. For example, in order for our China subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, a conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars is required which, if we were not allowed by the Chinese government, would cause an interruption in our operating cash flow. Under current Chinese law, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency generally requires government consent. Government authorities may impose restrictions that could have a negative impact in the future on the conversion process and upon our ability to meet our cash needs, and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Although, our subsidiaries’ classification as wholly owned foreign enterprises (“WOFEs”) under Chinese law permits them to declare dividends and repatriate their funds to us in the United States, any change in this status or the regulations permitting such repatriation could prevent them from doing so. Any inability to repatriate funds to us would in turn prevent payments of dividends to our shareholders. The Chinese currency, “Renminbi”, is not a freely convertible currency, which could limit our ability to obtain sufficient foreign currency to support our business operations in the future. If we effect a business combination in Hong Kong or on the Chinese mainland, we will likely rely on the Chinese government’s foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. If we receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, this currency is not freely convertible into other foreign currencies. In China, the government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies which are required for “current account” transactions can be bought freely at authorized Chinese banks, the proper procedural requirements prescribed by Chinese law must be met. At the same time, Chinese companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the Chinese government. This type of heavy regulation by the Chinese government of foreign currency exchange restricts certain of our business operations and a change in any of these government policies, or any other, could further negatively impact our operations which could result in a loss of profits. Risks of Doing Business in Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand Any devaluation of currencies used in Japan, South Korea, Australia or New Zealand could negatively impact our target business’ results of operations and could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Because our objective is to acquire control of a target business having its primary operating facilities located in Asia, including Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand, and because substantially all revenues and income would be received in a foreign currency such as Yen, Won, or the Australian or New Zealand dollar, the main currency used in Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand, respectively, the dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, would be adversely affected by reductions in the value of the Yen, Won, or the Australian or New Zealand dollar. The value of the Yen, Won, or the Australian or New Zealand dollar fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in Japan’s, South Korea’s, Australia’s or New Zealand’s political and economic conditions. Any devaluation of such currencies may materially and adversely affect a target business. If the Yen, Won, or the Australian or New Zealand dollar appreciates in value against the dollar prior to the consummation of a business combination, the cost of a target business as measured in dollars will increase. 41 Because Japanese, South Korean, Australian or New Zealand law will govern almost all of any target business’ material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within Japan, South Korea, Australia or New Zealand, or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Japanese, South Korean, Australian or New Zealand law will govern almost all of our target business’ material agreements, many of which may be with Japanese, South Korean, Australian or New Zealand governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of Japan, South Korea, Australia or New Zealand. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in Japan, South Korea, Australia or New Zealand may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. To the extent that our target business’ material agreements are with Japanese, South Korean, Australian or New Zealand governmental agencies, we may not be able to enforce or obtain a remedy from such agencies due to sovereign immunity, in which the government is deemed to be immune from civil lawsuit or criminal prosecution. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese, South Korean, Australian or New Zealand currency and the United States dollar could adversely affect our operating results. The functional currency of our operations in Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand would be “Yen”, “Won”, and the Australian and New Zealand dollar, respectively. However, results of our operations are translated at average exchange rates into United States dollars for purposes of reporting results. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Fluctuations may adversely affect the comparability of period-to-period results. Although we may use hedging techniques in the future (which we currently do not use), we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could cause our profits, and therefore our stock prices, to decline. Risks Related to the Leisure, Hospitality, Real Estate and Related Industries Acts of terrorism and war could have an adverse effect on our target industries, which in turn could adversely affect our business. The transportation, leisure and hospitality industries are sensitive to safety and security concerns, and thus declines after occurrences of and fears of future incidents of terrorism and hostilities that affect the safety, security and confidence of travelers and users of hotels and related amenities and services. For example, the start of the war in Iraq in March 2003 and the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, which included attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon using hijacked commercial aircraft, resulted in the cancellation of significant number of flights and travel bookings and a decrease in new travel bookings. Our future revenues and results of operations may be reduced or otherwise negatively affected by similar and/or other acts of terrorism or war. The effects of these events could include, among other things, a protracted decrease in demand for air travel due to fears regarding additional acts of terrorism, military and governmental responses to acts of terrorism and a perceived inconvenience in traveling by air and increased costs and reduced operations by airlines due, in part, to new safety and security directives adopted by the Federal Aviation Administration or other governmental agencies all of which, among other possibilities, could affect the hospitality industry. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to insure against the risk associated with acts of terrorism. We will be subject to all the operating risks common to the hospitality industry. Operating risks common to the hospitality industry include: · changes in general economic conditions and the prospects for improved performance in other parts of the world; · consumers’ fears of exposures to contagious diseases or the occurrence of natural disasters; · consumer reluctance to spend on luxury items; · decreases in the demand for transient rooms and related lodging services, including a reduction in business and vacation travel as a result of general economic conditions; · cyclical over-building in the hotel and vacation ownership industries; · restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations and other governmental and regulatory action; · changes in operating costs including, but not limited to, energy, labor costs and health-care related costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences; and · disputes with owners of properties and franchisees which may result in litigation. 42 The hospitality industry is highly competitive, both for acquisitions of new hotels and other properties, for related amenity and service companies and for consumers. We will be competing for hotel and related property or business acquisition opportunities with others who have substantially greater financial resources than we do. These competitors may be prepared to accept a higher level of financial risk than we can prudently manage. This competition may have the effect of reducing the number of suitable opportunities offered to us and increasing our acquisition costs by enhancing the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell or to enter into management agreements. Competitive factors in the hospitality industry include convenience of location, the quality of the property, room rates, the range and quality of food services and amenities offered and name recognition. Demographic, geographic or other changes in one or more markets of our target business could impact the convenience or desirability of its hotels, amenities or services and so could adversely affect their operations. Also, new or existing competitors could significantly lower rates or offer greater conveniences, services or amenities, or significantly expand, improve or introduce new facilities in the markets in which our target business’ hotels compete. If we acquire control of a target business in the gaming industry and are unable to comply with governmental regulations affecting the gaming industry, it could negatively affect our operations. We may acquire control of a target business in an industry related to hospitality such as the gaming industry. The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we would need to maintain licenses and pay gaming taxes to conduct such operations. Casinos are subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction where they are located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. In addition to gaming regulations, our businesses may be subject to various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate. These laws and regulations may include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning environmental matters and taxation. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations or material difference in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to risks relating to real estate investments. We could be subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we may enter into a business combination with a target business that owns and leases hotels, resorts and other properties. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, real estate, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. For example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and/or time-consuming to develop real property or expand, modify or renovate hotels. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, if our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income will be adversely affected. Our operations could be negatively affected if we are unable to manage the timing, budgeting and other risks associated with hotel, resort or golf course development or conversion of properties. Our target business may develop hotel, resort or golf course properties or convert properties to different uses, as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project development and conversion of properties have a number of risks, including risks associated with: · construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; · receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; · environmental issues with respect to development or conversion of properties such as golf courses; · development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; · so-called acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project; · defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; and · governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. 43 We cannot assure you that any development project will be completed on time or within budget. Our financial condition could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. There will be costs associated with operations which are staffed by organized labor. Because of the higher labor costs and the increased risk of strikes and other work-related stoppages that may be associated with union or other organized operations in the hospitality sector, non-unionized competitors may have a competitive advantage in areas where they compete with unionized operations. To the extent we acquire control of non-union operations which subsequently become unionized, we could incur an increased risk of work stoppages, reduced productivity and higher labor costs. Work stoppages or strikes could adversely affect our operations or increase our costs. We will be subject to the risks associated with trends in consumer and business travel. If we affect a business combination in the hospitality industry, we will likely rely in large part on trends in U.S. and international business and consumer travel. Travel is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tends to decline during general economic downturns. In addition, other adverse trends or events that tend to reduce travel could reduce our revenues or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. These may include: · price escalation in the airline industry or other travel-related industries due to increased fuel costs or other factors; · occurrence of travel-related accidents and concerns about passenger convenience and safety; · advances in business technology and communication, such as videoconferencing and online teleconferencing; · health-related fears; and · bad weather. Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry We may be subject to significant regulatory requirements in connection with our efforts to consummate a business combination with a financial services firm, which may result in our failure to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame and may force us to liquidate. Acquisitions of financial services companies are often subject to significant regulatory requirements and consents, and we will not be able to consummate a business combination with certain types of financial services companies without complying with applicable laws and regulations and obtaining required governmental or client consents. For example, if we were to attempt to acquire control of an investment management firm, we would have to obtain consents of the firm’s investment management clients or enter into new contracts with them, and there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain such consents or enter into new contracts. Further, if any such firm were located or had clients in a jurisdiction in which such industry is heavily regulated, we would bear the expense of compliance with such regulation. Similarly, if we were to attempt to acquire equity interests in certain banks, we would be required to obtain the approvals of the banking authority in the jurisdictions in which such banks were located or operated. If our acquisition target were an insurance company, similar restrictions may apply. In any of these circumstances, such regulatory authority could prevent us from completing our acquisition. The acquisition of a business in other sectors of the financial services industry may require similar approvals or consents. We may not receive any such required approvals or we may not receive them in a timely manner, including as a result of factors or matters beyond our control. Satisfying any requirements of regulatory agencies may delay the date of our completion of our initial business combination beyond the required time frame (18 months after the consummation of our offering or 24 months after the consummation of our offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of our offering and the initial business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within such 18-month period). If we fail to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame we will be forced to liquidate. The financial services industry faces substantial regulatory and litigation risks and conflicts of interest, and, after the consummation of a business combination with a company in the financial services industry, we may face legal liability and reduced revenues and profitability if our services are not regarded as compliant or for other reasons. The financial services industry in many countries is subject to extensive regulation. Many regulators, including government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings and investigations that can result in, among other things, censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, prohibitions against engaging in some lines of business or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or investment adviser. The requirements imposed by regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect consumers and other third parties who deal with financial services firms and are not designed to protect our shareholders. 44 Governmental and self-regulatory organizations, such as securities exchanges and markets, impose and enforce regulations on financial services companies. Self-regulatory organizations often adopt rules that govern aspects of the financial services industry and conduct periodic examinations of the operations of broker-dealers and investment advisers. Broker-dealers may subject to rules and regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business including: sales methods and trade practices; use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities; capital structures; recordkeeping; the preparation of research; the extension of credit; and the conduct of officers and employees. Similarly, governmental and self-regulatory organizations in other countries having jurisdiction over the operation of any entity which we acquire will likely impose similar rules and regulations. The types of regulations to which investment advisers are subject are also extensive and include: recordkeeping; fee arrangements; client disclosure; custody of customer assets; and the conduct of officers and employees. Various regulatory agencies also have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities brokerage firms. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to suspension or revocation of registration or licensing or suspension or expulsion from the regulatory body or exchange, which ultimately could prevent any broker-dealers that we acquire control of from performing as a broker-dealer. In addition, a change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against net capital could limit the operations of broker-dealers, which could harm our business if we were to consummate a business combination with a securities brokerage firm. The regulatory environment in which we may operate may also be subject to modifications and further regulations. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to us also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services firms has been increasing. After our initial business combination, our engagement agreements or arrangements may include provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. We may also be subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. The risk of significant legal liability is often difficult to assess or quantify and its existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant harm to our reputation, which could seriously harm our business. Financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts of interest. We will need to adopt various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, these policies, controls and procedures may result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. After the consummation of our initial business combination, if such combination is with a company in the financial services industry, we will face strong competition from financial services firms, many of whom have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we may be able to offer, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If our initial business combination is with a company in the financial services industry, we will compete with other firms — both domestic and foreign — on a number of factors, including the quality of our employees, transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We may fail to attract new business and we may lose clients if, among other reasons, we are not able to compete effectively. We will also face significant competition as result of a recent trend toward consolidation in this industry. In the past several years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products such as loans, deposit-taking and insurance, brokerage, investment management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenue in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure on other businesses. We believe, in light of increasing industry consolidation and the regulatory overhaul of the financial services industry, that competition will continue to increase from providers of financial services products. 45 The financial services industry has inherent risks, which may affect our net income and revenues. The financial services business is, by its nature, subject to numerous and substantial risks, including volatile trading markets and fluctuations in the volume of market activity. Consequently, our net income and revenues are likely to be subject to wide fluctuations, reflecting the effect of many factors, including: general economic conditions; securities market conditions; the level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices; competitive conditions; liquidity of global markets; international and regional political conditions; regulatory and legislative developments; monetary and fiscal policy; investor sentiment; availability and cost of capital; technological changes and events; outcome of legal proceedings; changes in currency values; inflation; credit ratings; and the size, volume and timing of transactions. These and other factors could affect the stability and liquidity of securities and future markets, and the ability of issuers, other securities firms and counterparties to perform their obligations. A reduced volume of securities and future transactions and reduced market liquidity generally results in lower revenues from principal transactions and commissions. Lower price levels for securities may result in a reduced volume of transactions and may also result in losses from declines in the market value of securities held in proprietary trading and underwriting accounts, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, or in markets influenced by sustained periods of low or negative economic growth, including the risk of losses resulting from the ownership of securities, trading and the failure of counterparties to meet commitments. In particular, if we consummate a business combination with an investment management firm, our business could be expected to generate lower revenue in a market or general economic downturn. Under a typical arrangement for an investment management business, the investment advisory fees we could receive would be based on the market value of the assets under management. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities would be expected to cause our revenue and income to decline by: · causing the value of the assets under management to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory fees; · causing negative absolute performance returns for some accounts which have performance-based incentive fees, resulting in a reduction of revenue from such fees; or · causing some of our clients to withdraw funds from our investment management business in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity and lower risk, which also would result in lower investment advisory fees. Many financial services firms face credit risks which, if not properly managed, could cause revenues and net income to decrease. Many types of financial services firms, including banks and broker-dealers, lend funds to their consumers. Among the risks all lenders face is the risk that some of their borrowers will not repay their loans. The ability of borrowers to repay their obligations may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including local and general economic and market conditions. A substantial portion of the loans may be secured by liens on real estate or securities. These same factors may adversely affect the value of real estate and securities as collateral. If we enter into a business combination with a firm that makes loans, we would maintain an allowance for loan losses to reflect the level of losses determined by management to be inherent in the loan portfolio. However, the level of the allowance and the amount of the provisions would only be estimates based on management’s judgment, and actual losses incurred could materially exceed the amount of the allowance or require substantial additional provisions to the allowance, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 