D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information included herein as well as the information included in other reports and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) before investing in our securities. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. The trading price of our units, Ordinary Shares and warrants could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company We may be required to access additional working capital. As disclosed in our Form 6-K dated January 22, 2010, in connection with our business combination transactions consummated in January 2010, we repurchased for approximately $112.4 million an aggregate of approximately 11.2 million ordinary shares from our public shareholders resulting in our retaining approximately $2.6 million in cash before transaction costs from the funds originally received in our January 2008 initial public offering. As such, we need additional working capital in order to expand our business operations. In the last few months we have sold or redeemed some of our acquired assets in order to generate additional working capital for operations. We believe that we have has sufficient sources of liquidity to finance our existing operations for the coming twelve months. However, we may be required to raise additional debt and/or equity capital to finance our planned activities or potential acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional capital if we elect to do so, or if such capital is available, that it will be on acceptable terms that will not otherwise dilute the equity interests of our existing shareholders. We have no operating history and our future performance cannot be predicted based on our historical financial information. We did not commence meaningful operations until January 20, 2010. Therefore, there is no historical information upon which to evaluate our performance. In general, companies in the initial stages of development present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses. We also will be subject to risks generally associated with the formation of any new business. We must successfully develop business relationships, establish operating procedures, acquire property, obtain regulatory approvals, hire management and other staff and complete other tasks appropriate for the conduct of our business activities. In particular, our success depends on, among other things, our ability to: · attract and retain personnel with underwriting, actuarial and hedging expertise; · model and accurately price our reinsurance; · capitalize on new business opportunities; and · evaluate effectively the risks that we assume under the reinsurance policies that we write and manage such risks in volatile or down markets. Failure to achieve any of these business objectives would have a materially adverse effect on us. We may be required to make material adjustments in the value of certain of our assets which could lower our total capital base. As part of our January 2010 acquisition of the assets and liabilities of various pooled investment vehicles (the “Stillwater Funds”) then managed by Stillwater, the purchase price for those assets was based upon approximately $541.25 million of estimated net asset values as of December 31, 2009 (the “Estimated Asset Values”) which were provided to us by Stillwater. Such Estimated Asset Values are subject to a post-acquisition adjustment based upon an independent audit of approximately 90% of those assets. Although the independent audit has not yet been completed, such audit may conclude that the final net asset values of the Stillwater Funds are materially lower than the Estimated Asset Values. Although the share adjustment provisions contained in our acquisition agreements entitle us to issue a correspondingly lower number of our Ordinary Shares to the former investors and beneficial owners of the Stillwater Funds and our net shareholder equity per share would not be affected, any reduction to the Estimated Net Asset Values of the Stillwater Funds would result in our company having lower total net assets and a lower total capital base. 8 We may not have enough liquidity to service and maintain certain of our assets, which could cause certain of our assets to lose value. Certain of the Stillwater Funds have historically invested primarily in real estate, loans made to attorneys, and life settlement and premium finance loans. A portion of these investments require us to invest additional funds to service these assets and preserve their value. In particular, our premium finance business and related life insurance assets and collateral require significant ongoing funding to pay the periodic premiums due on the life insurance policies in order to preserve their value and keep such policies from lapsing. Failure to pay premiums will directly result in a loss of value on any lapsed policy. Similarly, our law firm loan portfolio may benefit from us to making additional advances to law firm borrowers from time to time in order to allow the borrowers to pursue contingent litigation matters on which these borrowers may earn fees which are intended to serve as the source of repayment of our loans. If we elect to curtail the funding of the litigation activities of these borrowers, or are unable to fund additional advances for various reasons it could have a negative impact on our ability to collect the full amount of the existing or future loans. In addition, our real estate loans and real estate investments may require additional funding in order to realize revenue or preserve economic value. Overall, if we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet the various funding requirements to preserve these assets, a substantial portion may suffer a material loss in value. Certain of our subsidiaries are obligated to pay significant redemption claims to former investors. Partly as a result of the recent economic recession, many investors in hedge funds and other investment funds have sought to withdraw or redeem their investments, in many cases resulting in investment managers suspending redemption requests. The Stillwater Funds currently owe approximately $15.0 million in unsatisfied investor redemption claims. Many, if not all, of these debts and claims will be required to be repaid by our subsidiaries from the sale of fund assets or collection of accounts receivable before available funds can be redeployed or reinvested. As a result, amounts available to be utilized as regulatory capital for our existing and proposed insurance businesses may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, former investors to whom such redemption claims are owed may take legal action to collect these debts which could adversely affect the operations of our subsidiaries. Our failure to obtain the audits of certain of our assets may adversely affect our business and operations. Under the terms of our acquisition agreements, Stillwater and certain of the Stillwater Funds were obligated to provide us by not later than March 31, 2010 audits of certain of such Stillwater Funds as at December 31, 2009. To date, such audits have not been completed. Further delays in receiving such audit reports may materially and adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and could result in our breach of certain agreements to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), the shares we issued in connection with our January 2010 acquisitions. Although we believe that such audits will be completed in the near future, there is no assurance that they will be made available on a timely basis, if at all. As a non-U.S. company, we have elected to comply with the less stringent reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, as a foreign private issuer. We are a Cayman Islands company, and our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and the Companies Law and common law of the Cayman Islands. A majority of our executive officers and a majority of the members of our board of directors are not United States citizens or residents, and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Based upon these and other relevant factors, management and the board of directors believe that we are a “foreign private issuer” as such term is defined in Rule 3b-4 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). On May 15, 2008, we furnished a Form 6-K to the SEC stating that we would discontinue filing period reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and interim reports on Form 8-K and that, going forward, we would file annual and periodic reports under the Exchange Act as a “foreign private issuer.” This means generally that in lieu of reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q or 8-K, we file annual reports on Form 20-F and periodic information on Form 6-K. We provide quarterly and other interim material information under cover of Form 6-K in accordance with applicable rules and regulations (including the listed company rules of the NYSE Amex Exchange) in a manner which we believe provides material and timely information. It is important to note that disclosure under Forms 20-F and 6-K may differ in certain material respects from disclosure on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. 9 The principal differences between the reporting obligations of a foreign private issuer and those of a U.S. domestic company are as follows: Foreign private issuers are not required to file their annual report on Form 20-F until six months after the end of each fiscal year while U.S domestic issuers that are accelerated filers are required to file their annual report of Form 10-K within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are not required to file regular quarterly reports on Form 10-Q that contain unaudited financial and other specified information. However, if a foreign private issuer makes interim reports available to shareholders, the foreign private issuer will be required to furnish copies of such reports to the SEC on a Form 6-K. Foreign private issuers are also not required to file current reports on Form 8-K upon the occurrence of specified significant events. However, foreign private issuers are required to file reports on Form 6-K disclosing whatever information the foreign private issuer has made or is required to make public pursuant to its home country’s laws or distributes to its shareholders and that is material to the issuer and its subsidiaries. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from the requirements under the U.S. proxy rules prescribing content of proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders. Although the NYSE Amex Exchange does require that we prepare and deliver to shareholders annual reports and proxy statements in connection with all meeting of shareholders, these documents are not required to comply with the detailed content requirements of the SEC’s proxy regulations applicable to U.S. domestic companies. Foreign private issuers generally disclose less detailed information regarding executive compensation and related matters. Officers, directors and 10% beneficial owners of foreign private issuers are exempt from requirements to file Forms 3, 4 and 5 to report their beneficial ownership of the issuer’s common stock under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act and are also exempt from the related short-swing profit recapture rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from, and you are not provided with the benefits of, most of the NYSE Amex Exchange corporate governance requirements, other than the requirement to maintain an audit committee consisting solely of independent directors under SEC Rule 10A-3. Instead of such disclosures, the SEC requires that we provide disclosure in our annual report on Form 20-F of any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by U.S. domestic companies pursuant to the standards of the NYSE Amex Exchange. The rules of the NYSE Amex Exchange also require that we furnish such disclosure, either on our web site or in our annual report to shareholders. As a result, our independent directors will not have as much influence over our corporate policy as they would if we were not a foreign private issuer. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company is expensive and time consuming. We have maintained relatively small finance and accounting staffs. We do not currently have an internal audit function. Although we have maintained disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required under the U.S. federal securities laws with respect to our very limited activities, we have not been required to maintain and establish these disclosure controls and procedures and internal control as will be required with respect to businesses such as the Insurance Companies with substantial operations. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, we will need to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations will require significant management time, place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems, and increase our insurance, legal and financial compliance costs. We may also need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Risks Applicable to the Insurance Companies If the Insurance Companies fail to obtain sufficient reinsurance business, their ability to transact reinsurance operations would be significantly and adversely affected. We believe that demand for reinsurance is now increasing due to favorable market conditions, among other factors. However, we cannot predict how long these conditions will persist and inability to obtain sufficient reinsurance of blocks of insurance could adversely affect earnings results. 10 The Insurance Companies’ results of operations will fluctuate from period to period and may not be indicative of its long-term prospects. The performance of the Insurance Companies’ insurance and reinsurance operations and their investment portfolio will fluctuate from period to period. Fluctuations will result from a variety of factors, including but not limited to: · insurance and reinsurance contract pricing; · their assessment of the quality of available insurance and reinsurance opportunities; · the volume and mix of insurance and reinsurance products they underwrite; · loss experience on their insurance and reinsurance liabilities; · their ability to assess and integrate their risk management strategy properly; and · the performance of their investment portfolio. With reference to the long-term nature of life and annuity liabilities, short-term results of operations may not be indicative of its long-term prospects. Established competitors with greater resources may make it difficult for the Insurance Companies to effectively market their products or offer their products at a profit. The insurance industry is highly competitive. The Insurance Companies compete with major insurers and reinsurers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and management resources than they do. Competition in the types of business that they underwrite is based on many factors, including: · premium charges; · the general reputation and perceived financial strength of the reinsurer; · relationships with reinsurance brokers; · terms and conditions of products offered; · ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; · speed of claims payment and reputation; and · the experience and reputation of the members of their underwriting and management team in the particular lines of reinsurance they seeks to underwrite. The competitors of the Insurance Companies include ACE Limited, General Re Corporation, Hannover Re Group, Munich Reinsurance Company, PartnerRe Ltd., Reinsurance Group of America, Inc., Swiss Reinsurance Company, Transatlantic Reinsurance Company and XL Capital Ltd., which are the dominant companies in the industry. Although they seek to provide coverage where capacity and alternatives are limited, the Insurance Companies directly compete with these larger companies due to the breadth of their coverage across our various insurance markets in substantially all lines of business. The Insurance Companies also compete with smaller companies and other niche reinsurers. There can be no assurance that the Insurance Companies will be able to compete successfully in the reinsurance market. Their failure to compete effectively would significantly and negatively affect their financial condition and results of operations. Claims may exceed the reserves of the Insurance Companies, which could adversely affect their business. The success of the Insurance Companies will be dependent upon their ability to assess, model and price accurately the risks associated with the business that they reinsure. If the Insurance Companies fail to assess the risks they assume accurately or if events or circumstances cause their estimates to be incorrect, the Insurance Companies may not establish appropriate premium rates and their reserves may be inadequate to cover claims, which could harm their business or reduce their net income. There can be no assurance that the Insurance Companies will be able to properly assess such risks. Estimating claim reserves involves actuarial and capital markets projections at a given point in time of what the insurer ultimately expects to pay out based on facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in market fluctuations, policy utilization of benefits, mortality, policyholder terminations and other variable factors such as inflation. The Insurance Companies are required to rely on information received from the ceding insurer for many of these assumptions. If such information turns out to be inaccurate, their business could be adversely affected. 11 Failure to obtain an A.M. Best rating, or a downgrade or withdrawal of an A.M. Best rating, would significantly and negatively affect an Insurance Company’s ability to implement its business strategy successfully. Companies, insurers and reinsurance brokers use ratings from independent ratings agencies as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. None of the Insurance Company have applied for an A.M. Best rating, and if an Insurance Company does apply for one it is uncertain whether or when it would receive a rating or what rating it would receive. In addition, if an Insurance Company receives a rating, A.M. Best will periodically review its rating, and may revise it downward or revoke it at its sole discretion based primarily on its analysis of the balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile of such Insurance Company. Factors which may affect its rating include: · any changes in the Insurance Company’s business practices that, in its opinion, no longer supports A.M. Best’s initial rating; · unfavorable financial or market trends that impact the Insurance Company; · losses exceeding loss reserves; · its inability to retain its senior management or other key personnel; or · significant losses in its investment portfolio. Even if an Insurance Company is able to obtain a favorable rating, if A.M. Best or another rating agency downgrades or withdraws its rating, it could be severely limited or prevented from writing any new reinsurance contracts which would significantly and negatively affect its ability to implement its business strategy. If an Insurance Company loses or is unable to retain its senior management or other key personnel and is unable to attract qualified personnel, its ability to implement its business strategy could be delayed or hindered, which, in turn, could significantly and negatively affect its business. An Insurance Company’s future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of its senior management and other key personnel to implement its business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available, qualified executives with substantial experience in its industry. In addition, such Insurance Company will need to add personnel, including underwriters, to implement its business strategy. Accordingly, the loss of the services of one or more of the members of its senior management or other key personnel, or its inability to hire and retain other key personnel, could delay or prevent it from fully implementing its business strategy and, consequently, significantly and negatively affect its business. None of the Insurance Companies currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of its senior management, including its Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer. An Insurance Company’s failure to obtain or maintain sufficient collateral on commercially acceptable terms may significantly and negatively affect its ability to maintain or grow its business. None of the Insurance Companies are licensed or admitted as an insurer or reinsurer in any jurisdiction other than Barbados, Bermuda and Ireland. Certain jurisdictions, including states of the United States, do not permit insurance companies to take credit on their statutory financial statements for reinsurance obtained from reinsurers that are unlicensed or non-admitted in such jurisdictions unless appropriate collateral is provided or other security measures are implemented. As a result, all of its U.S. clients and a portion of its non-U.S. clients require it to provide collateral for the contracts it binds with them. This collateral usually takes the form of funds withheld or trust arrangements. Certain insurance company clients may in the future request collateral in the form of letters of credit, in which case the failure to obtain, maintain, replace or increase its letter of credit facilities on commercially acceptable terms may significantly and negatively affect Allied Provident’s ability to implement its business strategy. The Insurance Companies sometimes depends on their clients’ evaluations of the risks associated with their insurance underwriting, which may subject them to reinsurance losses. In some of their reinsurance business, the Insurance Companies assume an agreed upon percentage (less than 100%) of the underlying insurance contract being reinsured, which are called quota share reinsurance contracts. In such situations, the Insurance Company does not typically separately evaluate each of the original individual insurance risks assumed and is largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by insurance companies issuing the policy. The Insurance Companies are therefore subject to the risk that the insurer client may not have adequately evaluated the insured risks, or that the amount of the premiums assigned to it may not adequately compensate it for the risks it assumes. Therefore, the Insurance Companies will be dependent on the original claims decisions made by its insurance company clients. As the Insurance Companies also do not expect to separately evaluate each of the individual claims made on these quota-share reinsurance contracts, they are subject to the risk that the client may pay invalid claims, which could result in reinsurance losses for them. 12 Interest rate fluctuations could negatively affect the income derived from the difference between the interest rates the Insurance Companies may earn on their investments and the interest they may pay under their reinsurance contracts. Significant changes in interest rates expose reinsurance companies, such as the Insurance Companies, to the risk of not earning income on investments, or experiencing losses based on the difference between the interest rates earned on investments and the credited interest rates paid out under outstanding reinsurance contracts. Both rising and declining interest rates could negatively affect the income the Insurance Companies may derive from these interest rate spreads. During periods of falling interest rates, investment earnings will be lower because interest earnings on some of the variable interest rate investments will likely have declined in parallel with market interest rates. Additionally, new investments in fixed or variable interest rate investments will likely bear lower interest rates. The Insurance Companies may not be able to fully offset the decline in investment earnings with lower crediting rates on their reinsurance contracts that have cash values. During periods of rising interest rates, the Insurance Companies may be contractually obligated to increase the crediting rates on their reinsurance contracts that have cash values. However, they may not have the ability to immediately acquire investments with interest rates sufficient to offset the increased crediting rates on their reinsurance contracts. While they develop and maintain asset/liability management programs and procedures designed to reduce the volatility of its income when interest rates are rising or falling, there can be no assurance that changes in interest rates will not affect their interest rate spreads. Changes in interest rates may also affect their business in other ways. Lower interest rates may result in lower sales of certain insurance and investment products of their other customers, which would reduce the demand for the reinsurance of these products. The invested assets supporting the business of the Insurance Companies may decrease in value if the assets default or decrease in earning power. The invested assets of the Insurance Companies that will support their reserve liabilities are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, and they will be exposed to such risks on their portfolio. Beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing into 2008 and 2009, the capital and credit markets experienced an unusually high degree of volatility. As a result, the invested assets of the Insurance Companies have experienced illiquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events and increased expected probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to sell, if desired. Due to the current reduced liquidity in capital markets, the Insurance Companies may be unable to sell or buy significant volumes of assets at quoted prices. Some issuers have defaulted on their financial obligations for various reasons, including bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy, downturns in real estate values, operational failure and fraud. These market disruptions in the current weak economic environment have led to increased impairments of and lower earnings on, securities which will support the reserve liabilities of the Insurance Companies. Lower earnings on the invested assets of the Insurance Companies constrain the growth of their capital, in turn constraining the payment of dividends and advances or repayment of funds to us. Further excessive defaults or other reductions in the value of securities could have a materially adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Insurance Companies, which in turn may affect us. In particular, if there is an unexpected increase in the volume or severity of claims that may force the Insurance Companies to liquidate securities, or if they do not structure the duration of investments to match their reinsurance liabilities, they may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a time of such market volatility and disruptions, when the sale of such assets will incur a significant loss. Investment losses could significantly decrease their asset base and statutory surplus, thereby affecting their ability to conduct business. Hedging activities could result in unexpected losses and could otherwise adversely affect the Insurance Companies. The Insurance Companies may seek to limit their exposure to adverse effects resulting from claims on reinsured annuities, property and casualty exposure, and related financial risks by using derivative financial instruments and other hedging mechanisms. Even though monitored by management, their hedging activities could result in losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including in the event a counterparty to a derivative instrument does not perform its obligations under the instrument, the hedge is imperfect (for instance, if the correlation between the two hedging instruments differ in nature, timing or quantity), stock prices and interest rates move unfavorably related to the Insurance Companies’ financial positions, hedging policies and procedures are not followed, or if the steps that they take to monitor the derivative financial instruments do not detect and prevent violations of their risk management policies and procedures. As a result of these factors, such hedging activities may not be as effective as intended in reducing the volatility and risks of its operational and financial positions and the Insurance Companies may experience significant financial losses and be adversely affected. 13 If the Insurance Companies do not appropriately structure their hedges in relation to their anticipated liabilities, their ability to conduct business could be adversely affected. The ability of the Insurance Companies to measure and manage risk and to implement their investment strategy and hedging arrangements are crucial to their success. There can be no assurance that the Insurance Companies will successfully structure their hedges in relation to their anticipated liabilities under their reinsurance policies. If calculations with respect to these liabilities are incorrect, or if its hedges are not properly structured to meet such liabilities, the Insurance Companies could be forced to liquidate investments. The success of the Insurance Companies’ investment strategy and hedging arrangements are also affected by general economic conditions. These conditions may cause volatile interest rates and equity markets, which in turn could increase the cost of hedging and lead to poor investment results. Volatility or illiquidity in the markets could significantly and negatively affect the ability of the Insurance Companies to conduct business and could generate unexpected losses on existing reinsurance written. The Insurance Companies cannot guarantee that their investment strategy or hedging arrangements will be successful or that their investment or hedging objectives will be met. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. Hedging instruments are associated with certain additional risks when they are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Under such circumstances, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom the Insurance Companies have entered or may enter into a hedging transaction would most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom the Insurance Companies enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force them to cover their resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. It may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and it may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover such risk. There can be no assurance that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold and they may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Even if such hedging program and models are adequately designed, errors in data collection, dissemination and input as applied to the program and models could generate erroneous results and adversely affect the business of the Insurance Companies. Any hedging program and models may necessarily involve collection and dissemination of large amounts of data. Examples of data collected and analyzed include market indices, performances of reinsured contracts, risk statistics, contract information, rates, expenses and mortality or claims experience. To the extent that errors in data collection, dissemination and input or other data handling errors occur and are not identified and corrected by the internal controls of the Insurance Companies, the information generated by such program and models and supplied to their employees, affiliates, business partners and others, may be incorrect and may produce a deficient basis on which underwriting decisions, pricing, hedging arrangements, financial reporting and other material business decisions are made. If the investment strategy of the Insurance Companies is not successful, they could suffer unexpected losses. The Insurance Companies expect to derive a portion of their income from assets invested pursuant to their investment strategy. The operating results of the Insurance Companies will therefore depend in part on the performance of their invested assets and the individuals who will manage their portfolio and implement their investment strategy. The success of their investment strategy is crucial to the success of the business of the Insurance Companies. In particular, the investments are expected to be structured to match the anticipated liabilities under reinsurance treaties to the extent it is believed to be necessary. If the calculations with respect to these reinsurance liabilities are incorrect, or if the investments are improperly structured to match such liabilities, the Insurance Companies could be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss. 14 The Insurance Companies could incur substantial losses if financial institutions in which they maintain their cash, securities or other investment assets fail. The recent deterioration of the global credit and financial markets has created challenging conditions for financial institutions, including depositories, trustees and custodial institutions. As the fallout from the credit crisis persists, the financial strength of these institutions may continue to decline. The Insurance Companies may maintain cash balances at various United States depository institutions that are significantly in excess of the United States Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. The Insurance Companies may also maintain cash balances in foreign financial institutions. They may also maintain securities and other investment assets accounts and facilities at varied financial institutions. If one or more of the institutions in which the Insurance Companies maintain significant cash balances, securities or other investment assets were to fail, their ability to access these funds or other assets might be temporarily or permanently limited, or delayed for an indeterminate period of time, and they may incur expense in obtaining access to such funds or assets. As a result, they could face a material liquidity problem and potentially material financial losses from any such limitation or delay. The Insurance Companies may be dependent on a small number of large transactions, which, if any of them has an unfavorable outcome or fails to materialize as expected, could adversely affect them. The Insurance Companies may rely on a small number of transactions and ceding companies. Thus, they would be more sensitive to the underwriting and actuarial errors made in connection with a particular transaction and to an adverse change in the financial condition of a particular transaction or cedant, the occurrence of which could have a material adverse effect on the Insurance Companies. The Insurance Companies depend on the performance of others and their failure to perform in a satisfactory manner could negatively affect them. The Insurance Companies rely upon their insurance clients to provide timely and accurate information. They may experience volatility in their earnings as a result of erroneous or untimely reporting from their clients. The Insurance Companies expect to work closely with their clients and monitor their reporting to minimize this risk. They also rely on original underwriting decisions made by their clients. There can be no assurance that these processes or those of their clients will adequately control business quality or establish appropriate pricing. Counterparties’ failure to perform their obligations could adversely affect the Insurance Companies. The risk management and loss limitation strategy of the Insurance Companies may include hedging risks that they will assume from the ceding companies writing insurance products. This strategy will include entering into derivative arrangements such as options, swaps and future agreements. Some of these agreements may be entered into on the over-the-counter (OTC) market, where the Insurance Companies interact directly with one or more investment banks. The Insurance Companies are dependent on the investment banks paying them in a timely manner and according to the terms of the derivative transactions in order to effectively manage their risks and losses. The Insurance Companies may cede some of the business that they reinsure to other reinsurance companies, known as retrocessionaires. In such arrangements, the Insurance Companies would assume the risk that the retrocessionaire will be unable to pay amounts due to them because of such retrocessionaire’s own financial difficulties. The failure of such retrocessionaires to pay amounts due to them will not absolve them of its responsibility to pay ceding companies for risks that they reinsure. Failure of retrocessionaires to pay the Insurance Companies could materially harm their business, results of operations and financial condition. Interruption or loss of the information processing systems of the Insurance Companies or the failure to maintain secure information systems could have a material adverse effect on their business. The business of the Insurance Companies depends on readily available systems, secure information and the ability of their employees to process transactions. The capacity of the Insurance Companies to service their clients will rely on storing, retrieving, processing and managing information. Interruption or loss of their information processing capabilities through loss of stored data, the failure of computer equipment or software systems, telecommunications failure or other disruption could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite any business contingency plans the Insurance Companies may adopt, their ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports their business and their physical locations. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services used by the Insurance Companies, their employees or third parties with whom they may conduct business. Although the Insurance Companies have certain disaster recovery procedures in place and insurance to protect against such contingencies, such procedures may not be effective and any insurance or recovery procedures may not continue to be available at reasonable prices and may not address all such losses or compensate them for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that they are unable to provide services. 15 Furthermore, the Insurance Companies may depend on computer systems to store information about their clients and parties associated with the underlying policies, some of which is private. Database privacy, identity theft, and related computer and internet issues are matters of growing public concern and are subject to frequently changing rules and regulations. A growing body of United States and foreign laws designed to protect the privacy of personally-identifiable information, as well as to protect against its misuse, and the judicial interpretations of such laws, may adversely affect the business of the Insurance Companies. The evolving nature of all of these laws and regulations, as well as the evolving nature of various governmental bodies’ enforcement efforts, and the possibility of new laws in this area, may adversely affect the ability of the Insurance Companies to collect and disseminate or share certain information and may negatively affect their ability to make use of that information. The failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or harm to their reputation. The Insurance Companies will take reasonable and appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized access to information in their databases. However, their technology and systems may fail to adequately secure the private information they maintain in their databases and protect them from theft or inadvertent loss. In such circumstances, they may incur liability to their clients or underlying policyholders, which could result in litigation or adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on their business. The business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity of the Insurance Companies may be materially adversely affected by errors and omissions and the outcome of claims, lawsuits and proceedings. In the ordinary course of the business of the Insurance Companies they may become subject to actual or potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the management of reinsured risks. Because the handling of claims may involve substantial amounts of money, errors and omissions claims against them may arise which allege their potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question. Claimants may seek large damage awards and these claims may involve potentially significant defense costs. Such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include allegations of damages for their employees’ or agents’ improperly failing to appropriately apply funds that they hold for their clients on a fiduciary basis. Errors and omissions claims, lawsuits and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business will be covered in part by professional indemnity or other appropriate insurance. The terms of this insurance will vary by policy year. In respect of self-insured risks, the Insurance Companies may establish provisions against these items which they believe to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice, and they will adjust such provisions from time to time according to developments. The business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of the Insurance Companies may be adversely affected if in the future their insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which they self-insure. The ability of the Insurance Companies to obtain professional indemnity insurance in the amounts and with the deductibles they desire in the future may be adversely impacted by general developments in the market for such insurance or their own claims experience. In addition, claims, lawsuits and other proceedings may harm their reputation or divert management resources away from operating their business. Current legal and regulatory activities relating to certain insurance products could affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Insurance Companies. In order to be accounted for as reinsurance, or loss mitigation, products, insurance products must meet the requirements of SFAS 113, which requires that the products meet certain risk transfer requirements. Certain insurance contracts have become the focus of investigations by the SEC and numerous states with respect to the SFAS 113 risk transfer requirements. Because some of the Insurance Companies’ contracts may contain features designed to manage the overall risks they assume, such as a cap on potential losses or a refund of some portion of the premium if they incur smaller losses than anticipated at the time the contract is entered into, it is possible that they may become subject to the ongoing inquiries into loss mitigation products conducted by the SEC or certain states. In addition, the Insurance Companies cannot predict at this time what effect current investigations, litigation and regulatory activities affecting other companies in the insurance industry will have on the reinsurance industry or their business or what, if any, changes may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry and financial reporting. It is possible that these investigations or related regulatory developments will mandate changes in industry practices that will negatively impact their ability to use certain loss mitigation features in their products and, accordingly, their ability to operate their business pursuant to their existing strategy. Moreover, any reclassification of their reinsurance contracts as deposit liabilities rather than reinsurance contacts could jeopardize their exemption from the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. 16 Currency fluctuations could result in exchange rate losses and negatively impact our business. The functional currency of the Insurance Companies is the U.S. dollar. Although they have not done so extensively to date, they may in the future write a portion of their business and receive premiums in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition they may invest a portion of their portfolio in assets denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Consequently, they may experience exchange rate losses to the extent their foreign currency exposure is not hedged or is not sufficiently hedged, which could significantly and negatively affect their business and results of operations. If they do seek to hedge their foreign currency exposure through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts or currency swaps, they will be subject to the risk that their counterparties to the arrangements fail to perform. Allied Provident is subject to all of the risks of a start-up business. Allied Provident has a limited operating history. Allied Provident was formed and commenced its insurance business in November 2007. In general, reinsurance and insurance companies in their initial stages of development present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. They must develop business relationships, establish operating procedures, hire staff, install information technology systems, implement management processes and complete other tasks appropriate for the conduct of their business activities. In particular, their ability to implement their strategy to penetrate the reinsurance market depends on, among other things: · their ability to attract clients; · their ability to attract and retain personnel with underwriting, actuarial and accounting and finance expertise; · their ability to obtain and maintain at least an A- (Excellent) rating from A.M. Best or a similar financial strength rating from one or more other ratings agencies; · their ability to effectively evaluate the risks they assume under reinsurance contracts that they write; · the results of the reinsurance business written to date is still to be determined they we may be subject to greater losses than anticipated; and · the members of their underwriting team may not have the requisite experience or expertise to compete for all transactions that fall within their strategy of offering frequency and severity contracts at times and in markets where capacity and alternatives may be limited. As of the date of this Annual Report, Allied Provident has issued a limited number of insurance policies, and it offers reinsurance to one insurer. In addition, it is not licensed or admitted as an insurer or reinsurer in any jurisdiction other than Barbados. There can be no assurance that there will be sufficient demand for the insurance products Allied Provident plans to write to support its planned level of operations, or that it will accomplish the tasks necessary to implement its business strategy. Allied Provident currently issues reinsurance to only one insurer. Allied Provident’s reinsurance strategy is to build a portfolio of “frequency” and “severity” reinsurance agreements with select insurance companies that are designed to meet the needs of the insurer that are not being met in the traditional reinsurance marketplace. However, Allied Provident currently issues reinsurance to only one insurer, a United States licensed insurance carrier that offers non-standard personal automotive insurance coverage to high risk or “rated” drivers who are unable to obtain insurance from standard carriers. Allied Provident’s current quota share treaty reinsurance agreement with the insurance carrier commenced on January 1, 2008 for a one year term, and was renewed on January 1, 2009 and January 1, 2010 for additional one year terms. However, the agreement may be terminated by either party on 90 days’ prior written notice. Upon termination of the agreement, Allied Provident remains liable for all losses that occur under insurance risks ceded to it at the time of termination for a period of one year following termination of such agreement, and for all claims made under such policies for a period of 18 months from termination of the reinsurance agreement. Allied Provident’s underwriter is responsible for contracts from origination until final disposition, including underwriting, pricing, servicing, monitoring and claims processing. If Allied Provident is unable to expand its underwriting infrastructure, it will be unable to fulfill its growth strategy or expand its business. Allied Provident’s underwriter is responsible for contracts from origination until final disposition, including underwriting, pricing, servicing, monitoring and claims processing. Because it currently only has one underwriter, Allied Provident is limited in how much business it can handle. As its business begins to grow, of which we can give no assurance, Allied Provident anticipates that it will have to hire additional underwriters and/or engage a third party underwriting service provider to manage the underwriting process and other contract maintenance activities. If Allied Provident is unable to expand its underwriting infrastructure, it will be unable to fulfill its growth strategy or expand its business. 17 Reinsurance brokers may subject Allied Provident to additional financial risks. In accordance with industry practice, Allied Provident may pay amounts owed on claims under its policies to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, remit these amounts to the insurance companies that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with Allied Provident. In some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, Allied Provident would remain liable to the insurance company client for the deficiency notwithstanding the broker’s obligation to make such payment. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the client pays premiums for policies to reinsurance brokers for payment to Allied Provident, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the client will no longer be liable to it for these premiums, whether or not it has actually received them. Consequently, Allied Provident may assume a degree of credit risk associated with reinsurance brokers around the world. Allied Provident does not currently work with reinsurance brokers but may do so in the future on a limited and/or case-by-case basis. Allied Provident’s inability to purchase or collect upon certain indemnity coverage it seeks to obtain in order to limit its reinsurance risks could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Typically reinsurance companies seek to mitigate their risks under reinsurance contracts they issue by purchasing indemnity insurance against losses from other reinsurance companies. This is called retrocessional coverage. As of December 31, 2009, Allied Provident has not purchased retrocessional coverage. The insolvency or inability or refusal of a provider of retrocessional reinsurance coverage to make payments under the terms of its agreement with Allied Provident could have an adverse effect on it as it still remains liable to its insurance client under its original reinsurance contract. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of retrocessional coverage that they consider adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, Allied Provident may not be able to obtain its desired amounts of retrocessional coverage or negotiate terms that it deems appropriate or acceptable or obtain retrocession from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. Its failure to establish adequate retrocessional arrangements or the failure of its retrocessional arrangements to protect it from overly concentrated risk exposure could significantly and negatively affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance markets may be affected by cyclical trends. Allied Provident writes insurance and reinsurance in the property and casualty markets. The property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical. Primary insurers’ underwriting results, prevailing general economic and market conditions, liability retention decisions of companies and primary insurers and reinsurance premium rates influence the demand for property and casualty reinsurance. Prevailing prices and available surplus to support assumed business influence reinsurance supply. Supply may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments realized in the reinsurance industry, the frequency and severity of losses and prevailing general economic and market conditions. Continued increases in the supply of reinsurance may have adverse consequences for the reinsurance industry generally and for Allied Provident, including lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions. Unpredictable developments, including courts granting increasingly larger awards for certain damages, natural disasters (such as catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornados, earthquakes and floods), fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of investments and inflationary pressures, affect the industry’s profitability. The effects of cyclicality could significantly and negatively affect Allied Provident’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Being an Offshore Company The current business operations of the Insurance Companies are located outside the United States which exposes us to certain risks that may negatively impact our operations. Our current business operations are located outside the United States, which subject us to risks associated therewith, including any of the following: · rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; · tariffs and trade barriers; 18 · regulations related to customs and import/export matters; · longer payment cycles; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; · currency fluctuations and exchange controls; · challenges in collecting accounts receivable; · cultural and language differences; · employment regulations; · crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and · deterioration of political relations with the United States. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. The Insurance Companies are incorporated outside the Unites States and a majority of their directors and substantially all of their and the Company’s assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for security holders to enforce civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. The Insurance Companies are incorporated outside the United States and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, a majority of the directors are not (and some future directors may not be) citizens or residents of the United States and a significant portion of the assets of non-U.S. directors are (and for new directors may be) located outside the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult to serve legal process within the United States upon any of the non-U.S. directors. In addition, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against the Insurance Companies outside the United States or against their non-U.S. directors in their home countries, or in countries other than the United States where the Insurance Companies or they have assets, particularly if the judgments are based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. There is some doubt as to whether the courts of other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against the Insurance Companies or their directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against those persons based on those laws. In certain cases, there may not be a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in such countries. Insurance regulators in the United States or elsewhere may review the activities of the Insurance Companies and claim that they are subject to that jurisdiction’s licensing requirements. The Insurance Companies are currently admitted to do business in Bermuda, Ireland and Barbados. In general, the insurance statutes and regulations of these countries are less restrictive than United States state insurance statutes and regulations. There can be no assurance given that insurance regulators in the United States or elsewhere will not review their activities and claim that they are subject to such jurisdiction’s licensing requirements. In addition, they are subject to indirect regulatory requirements imposed by jurisdictions that may limit their ability to provide reinsurance. For example, their ability to write reinsurance may be subject, in certain cases, to arrangements satisfactory to applicable regulatory bodies and proposed legislation and regulations may have the effect of imposing additional requirements upon, or restricting the market for, non-U.S. reinsurers such as the Insurance Companies with whom domestic companies may place business. If, in the future, the Insurance Companies were to become subject to the laws or regulations of any state in the United States or to the laws of the United States or of any other country, they would have to either cease doing business in such jurisdictions or become licensed in such jurisdictions. If they attempt to become licensed in another jurisdiction, they may not be able to do so or, if they do obtain a license, required modifications of the conduct of their business or their subsequent non-compliance with their insurance statutes and regulations could materially and adversely affect their business and operating results. Furthermore, the applicable insurance laws and regulations are subject to change. Two bills, the Nonadmitted and Reinsurance Reform Act of 2009 and the Reinsurance Regulatory Modernization Act of 2009, purporting to regulate insurance and reinsurance, are currently pending in the U.S. Congress which may adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business if enacted. 19 Risks Related to Being a Barbados Company Insurance Regulations Allied Provident holds an Exempt Insurance License issued in accordance with the terms of the Exempt Insurance Act, 1983 (Act 1983-9) (as revised) of Barbados, or the “Law”, and is subject to regulation by the Barbados Insurance Supervisor, in terms of the implementation and interpretation of the Law. It is the duty of the Insurance Supervisor to examine the affairs or business of any licensee or other person carrying on, or who has carried on, insurance business in order to ensure that the Law has been complied with and that and the licensee is in a sound financial position and is carrying on its business in a satisfactory manner. As the holder of an Exempt Insurance License, Allied Provident is permitted to undertake insurance business from Barbados, but, other than with the prior written approval of the Insurance Supervisor, may not engage in any Barbados domestic insurance business except to the extent that such business forms a minor part of the international risk of a policyholder whose main activities are in territories outside Barbados. Allied Provident is required to comply with the following principal requirements under the Law: · the maintenance of a net worth (defined in the Law as the excess of assets, including any contingent or reserve fund secured to the satisfaction of the Insurance Supervisor, over liabilities other than liabilities to partners or shareholders) of at least 250,000 Barbados dollars (which is equal to approximately US $125,000), subject to increase by the Insurance Supervisor depending on the type of business undertaken; · to carry on its insurance business in accordance with the terms of the license application submitted to the Insurance Supervisor, to seek the prior approval of the Insurance Supervisor to any proposed change thereto, and annually to file a certificate of compliance with this requirement, in the prescribed form, signed by an independent auditor, or other party approved by the Insurance Supervisor; · to prepare annual accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, audited by an independent auditor approved by the Insurance Supervisor; · to seek the prior approval of the Insurance Supervisor in respect of the appointment of directors and officers and to provide the Insurance Supervisor with information in connection therewith and notification of any changes thereto; · to notify the Insurance Supervisor as soon as reasonably practicable of any change of control of Allied Provident, the acquisition by any person or group of persons of shares representing more than 10% of the issued shares of Allied Provident or total voting rights and to provide such information as the Insurance Supervisor may require for the purpose of enabling an assessment as to whether the persons acquiring control or ownership are fit and proper persons to acquire such control or ownership; · to maintain appropriate business records in Barbados; and · to pay an annual license fee. The Law requires that the holder of an Exempt Insurance License engage a licensed insurance manager operating in the Barbados to provide insurance expertise and oversight, unless exempted by the Insurance Supervisor. Allied Provident has engaged Amphora Captive Administrators Limited to perform these functions and has a written management agreement with them. Where the Insurance Supervisor believes that a licensee is committing, or is about to commit or pursue, an act that is deemed to be unsafe or an unsound business practice, the Insurance Supervisor may request that the licensee cease or refrain from committing the act or pursuing the offending course of conduct. Failures to comply with Insurance Supervisor regulation may be punishable by a fine of up to one hundred thousand Barbados dollars (US$121,951 based on Barbados’ pegged exchange rate of CI$0.82 per US$1.00), and an additional ten thousand Barbados dollars (US $12,195) for every day after conviction that the breach continues. Whenever the Insurance Supervisor believes that a licensee is or may become unable to meet its obligations as they fall due, is carrying on business in a manner likely to be detrimental to the public interest or to the interest of its creditors or policyholders, has contravened the terms of the Law, or has otherwise behaved in such a manner so as to call into question the licensee’s fitness, the Insurance Supervisor may take one of a number of steps, including requiring the licensee to take steps to rectify the matter, suspending the license of the licensee, revoking the license, imposing conditions upon the license and amending or revoking any such condition, requiring the substitution of any director, manager or officer of the licensee, at the expense of the licensee, appointing a person at the licensee’s expense to advise the licensee on the proper conduct of its affairs and to report to the Insurance Supervisor thereon, appointing a person to assume control of the licensee’s affairs or otherwise requiring such action to be taken by the licensee as Insurance Supervisor considers necessary, any of which would have a material adverse effect on the business of Allied Provident. 20 Any suspension or revocation of its insurance license would materially impact its ability to do business and implement Allied Provident’s business strategy. Allied Provident is licensed as both an insurance company and a reinsurer only in Barbados and does not plan to be licensed in any other jurisdiction. The suspension or revocation of its license to do business as a insurance and reinsurance company in Barbados for any reason would mean that it would not be able to enter into any new insurance or reinsurance contracts until the suspension ended or it became licensed in another jurisdiction. Any such suspension or revocation of its license would negatively impact its reputation in the insurance and reinsurance marketplace and could have a material adverse effect on Allied Provident’s results of operations. Allied Provident’s ability to pay dividends is subject to certain restrictions. The bylaws of Allied Provident provide that the board of directors may not declare dividends if the company is unable (or would be unable following payment of the dividend) to pay its liabilities as they become due, or if the value of the company’s assets would be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and stated capital. In addition, any dividends declared by the board of Allied Provident are subject to approval by Barbados regulators. Risks Related to Being a British Virgin Islands Company Amalphis’ ability to pay dividends is subject to certain restrictions. Amalphis has not, and currently does not intend, to declare and pay dividends on its shares. In addition, its ability to pay dividends is limited by the laws of the British Virgin Islands and by its status as a holding company. For example, its Articles of Association contain certain limitations regarding the payment of dividends in accordance with the laws of the British Virgin Islands. Pursuant to its Articles of Association, Amalphis may only pay dividends if its board of directors determines that, immediately after the dividend, the value of Amalphis’ assets will exceed its liabilities and that it will be able to pay its debts as they become due. As a holding company, Amalphis transacts business through Allied Provident, and its primary asset is the capital stock of Allied Provident. Accordingly, its ability to pay dividends depends upon the surplus and earnings of Allied Provident and any limitations on its ability to pay dividends to Amalphis. Amalphis may become subject to taxation in 2028 which would negatively affect its results. Under current British Virgin Islands law, Amalphis is not obligated to pay any taxes in the British Virgin Islands on either income or capital gains. The Governor-in-Cabinet of the British Virgin Islands has granted Amalphis an exemption from the imposition of any such tax on it for a period of twenty years from 2008. There can be no assurance given that after such date it would not be subject to any such tax. If it were to become subject to taxation in the British Virgin Islands, its financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and negatively affected. Risks Related to Cayman Islands Taxation The government of the Cayman Islands will not, under existing legislation, impose any income, corporate or capital gains tax, estate duty, inheritance tax, gift tax or withholding tax upon us or our shareholders. The Cayman Islands are not party to a double tax treaty with any country that is applicable to any payments made to or by us. We have applied for and received an undertaking dated April 3, 2007 from the Governor-in-Cabinet of the Cayman Islands that, in accordance with section 6 of the Tax Concessions Law (1999 Revision) of the Cayman Islands, for a period of 20 years from the date of the undertaking, no law which is enacted in the Cayman Islands imposing any tax to be levied on profits, income, gains or appreciations shall apply to us or our operations and, in addition, that no tax to be levied on profits, income, gains or appreciations or which is in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax shall be payable (i) on or in respect of our shares, debentures or other obligations or (ii) by way of the withholding in whole or in part of a payment of dividend or other distribution of income or capital by us to our members or a payment of principal or interest or other sums due under a debenture or other obligation. 21 Risks Related to U.S. Taxation We and the Insurance Companies could be treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States for federal income tax purposes and subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax, a 30% branch profits tax, and possibly state and local taxes. We and the Insurance Companies could also be subject to a 30% U.S. federal withholding tax if certain U.S. source income is earned by these entities. Because the determination of whether we and the Insurance Companies are engaged in a trade or business is essentially factual, there can be no assurance that we will not be treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States for federal income tax purposes and subject to U.S. federal income tax (and possibly a 30% branch profits) on income that is effectively connected to its trade or business in the United States. Any such taxes could have a material adverse effect on us and the Insurance Companies. Potential Application of the Federal Insurance Excise Tax The IRS has held that the U.S. federal insurance excise tax (“FET”) is applicable at a 1% rate on reinsurance cessions or retrocessions of “U.S. risk” by U.S. insurers or reinsurers to non-U.S. reinsurers, as well as to all reinsurance cessions or retrocessions of U.S. risks by non-U.S. insurers or reinsurers to non-U.S. reinsurers, even if the FET has been paid on prior cessions of the same risks. The liability for the FET may be imposed on either the ceding party or the cedant. Also, in certain instances a 4% excise tax can apply. We make no representations or opinion with respect to the potential application of the FET. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect us or our investors. It is possible that legislation could be introduced and enacted by the U.S. Congress, or U.S. Treasury regulations could be issued that could have an adverse effect on us or our investors. In particular, a bill was introduced in the U.S. Congress on October 27, 2009 that would require certain foreign corporations (such as us and the Insurance Companies) to enter into an agreement with the IRS to disclose to the IRS the name, address, and tax identification number of any U.S. person who owns an interest in us or an Insurance Company, and impose a 30% withholding tax on certain payments of income or capital gains to us or an Insurance Company if they fail to enter into the agreement or satisfy its obligations under the agreement. A version of this legislation was included in a bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives on December 9, 2009. If we or an Insurance Company fails to enter into the agreement or satisfy its obligations under the agreement, payments to them may be subject to a withholding tax, which could reduce the cash available for investors. Risks Related to the Investments of the Insurance Companies Limited Liquidity A substantial portion of the investments held by the Insurance Companies will lack liquidity. In certain situations, the Insurance Companies may invest in illiquid investments which could result in significant loss in value should they be forced to sell the illiquid investments as a result of rapidly changing market conditions or as a result of margin calls or other factors. In addition, U.S. futures exchanges typically establish daily price limits for most futures contracts. If the future’s price moves up or down in a single day by an amount equal to the daily price limit, it might not be able to enter or exit a position as desired. This may prevent an exit from an unprofitable position and lead to losses. In addition, the exchange or the CFTC may halt trading in a particular market or otherwise impose restrictions that affect trade execution. Risk of hedging transactions Hedging strategies in general are usually intended to limit or reduce investment risk, but can also be expected to limit or reduce the potential for profit. No assurance can be given that any particular hedging strategy will be successful. Risk of derivative instruments The Insurance Companies may make use of various derivative instruments, such as options. The use of derivative instruments involves a variety of risks, including the risks inherent in the extremely high degree of leverage often embedded in such instruments. In addition, derivative instruments often have limited liquidity, which can make it difficult as well as costly to close out open positions in order either to realize gains or to limit losses. Derivatives may be traded using a principal-to-principal or “over-the-counter” contract between the Insurance Companies and third parties. The risk of counterparty nonperformance, financial soundness and creditworthiness can be significant in the case of over-the-counter instruments, and “bid-ask” spreads may be unusually wide in these substantially unregulated markets. In addition, there is no guarantee that non-exchange markets will remain liquid enough for the Insurance Companies to close out positions. 22 Risks involving options Investing in options can provide a greater potential for profit or loss than an equivalent investment in the underlying asset. The value of an option may decline because of a decline in the value of the underlying asset relative to the strike price, the passage of time, changes in the market’s perception as to the future price behavior of the underlying asset, or any combination thereof. In the case of the purchase of an option, the risk of loss of an investor’s entire investment in the option (i.e., the premium paid plus transaction charges) reflects the nature of an option as a wasting asset that may become worthless when the option expires. Where an option is written or granted (sold) uncovered, the seller may be liable to pay substantial additional margin and the risk of loss is unlimited, as the seller will be obligated to deliver, or take delivery of, an asset at a predetermined price which may, upon exercise of the option, be significantly different from the then market value. Over-the-counter options generally are not assignable except by agreement between the parties concerned, and no party or purchaser has any obligation to permit such assignments. The over-the-counter market for options is relatively illiquid, particularly for relatively small transactions which may be used in the investment strategies of the Insurance Companies. Transaction counterparty risk. The receipt of monies owed under the terms of each option structure is subject to and dependent on the counterparty’s ability to pay such monies. As a result, the Insurance Companies may be susceptible to risks relating to the creditworthiness of the counterparty. In addition, the counterparty acts as principal and does not act in the capacity of a fiduciary to the Insurance Companies with respect to the option structures. Lack of centralized clearing. Because there is no central clearing agency for options, if the counterparty fails to make the cash payments required to settle an option, the Insurance Companies may lose any premium paid for the option as well as any anticipated benefit of the option. In such a situation, the Insurance Companies would look to the counterparty for recovery of any loss sustained by them that was caused by the failure of the counterparty to perform under the option. Volatility of transactions; Leverage. The value of the option depends on the performance of the underlying security. In addition, options will be leveraged and most, if not all, of the underlying securities to which an option is referenced use leverage and may also utilize over-the-counter derivative instruments. As a result, relatively small movements in the market prices of the instruments traded by the underlying securities can result in immediate and substantial losses. Such losses ultimately can adversely affect the economic return of the options. No direct ownership of the underlying funds. The options are intended to provide an economic return based on the performance of the underlying securities. The Insurance Companies may not have any rights of ownership or other rights to such securities, either directly or indirectly. Even if the Insurance Companies generate a profit, a default on the part of the counterparty could result in losses. Delay in payment. Under the anticipated terms of an option, the Insurance Companies may not receive payments until after the counterparty receives the redemption proceeds from the liquidation of the assets comprising its hedging position, if any. In the event that valuation difficulties arise, payment could be delayed and such delay potentially could be for a significant period of time. Valuation risks. The value of an option is not subject to verification through price transparency which typically results from secondary market trading. The value of an option is based upon the economic performance of the underlying securities, which may be illiquid and generally difficult to value. Dependency on issuer for leverage strategy. The ability of the Insurance Companies to use leverage through options, and to maintain the desired leverage ratio, is dependent on the counterparty’s willingness and ability to execute the options. Market volatility The profitability of the Insurance Companies substantially depends upon correctly assessing the future price movements of stocks, bonds, options and other securities or commodities, and the movements of interest rates. We cannot guarantee that the Insurance Companies will be successful in accurately predicting price and interest rate movements. 23 Investment activities The Insurance Companies’ investment activities involve a significant degree of risk. The performance of any investment is subject to numerous factors which are neither within the control of nor predictable by us. Such factors include a wide range of economic, political, competitive and other conditions (including acts of war or terrorism) which may affect investments in general or specific industries or companies. In recent years, the securities markets have become increasingly volatile, which may adversely affect the ability of the Insurance Companies to realize profits. As a result of the nature of the Insurance Companies’ investing activities, it is possible that our financial performance may fluctuate substantially from period to period. Risks related to use of leverage The Insurance Companies may use leverage in their investment program, including the use of borrowed funds and investments in option structures, and may use certain types of options, such as puts, calls and warrants, which may be purchased for a fraction of the price of the underlying securities while giving the purchaser the full benefit of movement in the market of those underlying securities. While such strategies and techniques increase the opportunity to achieve higher returns on the amounts invested, they also increase the risk of loss. To the extent the Insurance Companies purchase securities with borrowed funds, their net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed funds are not used. The level of interest rates generally, and the rates at which such funds may be borrowed in particular, could affect the operating results of the Insurance Companies. If the interest expense on borrowings were to exceed the net return on the portfolio securities purchased with borrowed funds, the Insurance Companies’ use of leverage would result in a lower rate of return than if there was no leverage. Risks related to short sales The Insurance Companies may sell securities short. Short selling involves the sale of a security that the Insurance Companies do not own and must borrow in order to make delivery in the hope of purchasing the same security at a later date at a lower price. Theoretically, securities sold short are subject to unlimited risk of loss because there is no limit on the price that a security may appreciate before the short position is closed. In addition, the supply of securities that can be borrowed fluctuates from time to time. The Insurance Companies may be subject to losses if a security lender demands return of the lent securities and an alternative lending source cannot be found. Risks associated with counterparties The Insurance Companies may engage in transactions in securities and financial instruments that involve counterparties, including the counterparties to options. Under certain conditions, a counterparty to a transaction or an option could default or file for bankruptcy, or the market for certain securities and/or financial instruments may become illiquid. In such event, the Insurance Companies could suffer losses and/or experience liquidity problems. In addition, the Insurance Companies’ rights against counterparties to options constitute general unsecured (i.e., not collateralized) obligations of the counterparty and are subject to the credit risk of the counterparty. Risks of trading futures Trading futures is a highly risky strategy. Whenever an Insurance Company purchases a particular future, there is a substantial possibility that it may sustain a total loss of its purchase price. The prices of futures are, in general, much more volatile than prices of securities such as stocks and bonds. As a result, the risk of loss in trading futures is substantially greater than in trading those securities. Prices of futures react strongly to the prices of the underlying commodities. The prices of these underlying products, in turn, rise and fall based on changes in interest rates, international balances of trade, changes in governments, wars, weather and a host of other factors that are entirely beyond the control of the Insurance Companies and that are very difficult (and perhaps impossible) to predict. Risks of investments in non-U.S. securities The Insurance Companies may invest a portion of their assets in foreign securities, which may give rise to risks relating to political, social and economic developments abroad, as well as risks resulting from the differences between the regulations to which U.S. and foreign issuers and markets are subject. These risks may include political or social instability, acts of war or terrorism, the seizure by foreign governments of assets, withholding taxes on dividends and interest, high or confiscatory tax levels, and limitations on the use or transfer of portfolio assets. Enforcing legal rights in some foreign countries is difficult, costly and slow, and there are sometimes special problems enforcing claims against foreign governments. Non-U.S. securities markets may be less liquid, more volatile and less closely supervised by the government than in the United States. Foreign countries often lack uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, and there may be less public information about their operations. 24 Foreign securities often trade in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and the Insurance Companies may directly hold foreign currencies and purchase and sell foreign currencies through forward exchange contracts. Changes in currency exchange rates will affect an Insurance Company’s net asset value, the value of dividends and interest earned, and gains and losses realized on the sale of securities. An increase in the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to these other currencies may cause the value of an Insurance Company’s investments to decline. Some foreign currencies are particularly volatile. Foreign governments may intervene in the currency markets, causing a decline in value or liquidity in an Insurance Company’s foreign currency holdings. If an Insurance Company enters into forward foreign currency exchange contracts for hedging purposes, it may lose the benefits of advantageous changes in exchange rates. On the other hand, if it enters forward contracts for the purpose of increasing return, it may sustain losses. The Insurance Companies may make commodity investments in non-U.S. markets. In addition to the general risks of commodity trading discussed above, such investments face special risks particular to non-U.S. markets. Non-U.S. commodity markets may have greater risk potential than United States markets. Unlike trading on U.S. commodity exchanges, trading on non-U.S. commodity exchanges is not regulated by a regulatory body comparable to the CFTC. For example, some non-U.S. exchanges are principal markets so that no common clearing facility exists and a trader may look only to the broker for performance of the contract. In addition, any profits that an Insurance Company might realize in trading could be eliminated by adverse changes in the relevant currency exchange rate, or the Insurance Company could incur losses as a result of those changes. Transactions on non-U.S. exchanges may include both commodities that are traded on U.S. exchanges and those that are not. Risks related to real estate Certain of the assets of the Insurance Companies may consist of real estate and real estate-related assets. Accordingly, such assets are subject to risks associated with the direct and indirect ownership of real estate and with the real estate industry in general. These risks include, among others: possible declines in the value of real estate; risks related to general and local economic conditions; possible lack of availability of mortgage funds; overbuilding; extended vacancies of properties and fluctuations in occupancy rates; increases in competition, property taxes and operating expenses; changes in zoning laws; costs resulting from the clean-up of, and liability to third parties for damages resulting from, environmental problems; casualty or condemnation losses; uninsured damages from floods, earthquakes or other natural disasters; limitations on and variations in rents and fluctuations in interest rates. To the extent that real estate assets are concentrated geographically, by property type or in certain other respects, the Insurance Companies may be subject to certain of the foregoing risks to a greater extent. Risks associated with trading limitations For all securities listed on a securities exchange, including options listed on a public exchange, the exchange generally has the right to suspend or limit trading under certain circumstances. Such suspensions or limits could render certain strategies difficult to complete or continue and subject the Insurance Companies to losses. Also, such a suspension could render it impossible for the Insurance Companies to liquidate positions and thereby expose them to potential losses. Risks Relating to Our Securities A market for our securities has existed only since January 16, 2008 and from that time until January 20, 2010, the market for our securities reflected our status as a blank check company. A market for our securities reflecting our being engaged in the insurance business from and after January 20, 2010 may not develop, which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. A market for our securities has existed only since January 16, 2008. From that date through January 20, 2010, we were a blank check company, and were not engaged in any business that could be evaluated using customary stock valuation metrics and methodologies. Therefore, shareholders should be aware that they should not rely on information about prior market history in connection with their investment decisions relating to the Ordinary Shares. The distribution of a significant number of our Ordinary Shares to the former investors and beneficial owners of the Stillwater Funds and the Wimbledon Funds could materially affect the market for and price of our publicly traded shares. Subject to completion of the audits of certain of our assets and the effectiveness of our resale registration statement with respect to the Ordinary Shares issuable to the former investors and beneficial owners of the Stillwater Funds and the Wimbledon Funds, we expect to distribute such shares in February 2011. It may be anticipated that in order to achieve liquidity, many of these former investors and beneficial owners will seek to sell a substantial amount of their shares in the public markets, which, absent an adequate demand for such shares at that time, could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse affect on the market price of our Ordinary Shares. 25 We do not expect to pay dividends on our Ordinary Shares in the foreseeable future. We do not currently pay cash dividends on our Ordinary Shares. Any future dividend payments are within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our Ordinary Shares. We will issue preferred shares or debt securities with greater rights than our Ordinary Shares and may issue additional series of Ordinary Shares with greater rights than our presently outstanding Ordinary Shares. Our Third Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of Ordinary Shares and set the terms of the Ordinary Shares without seeking any further approval from holders of our Ordinary Shares. We may also issue preferred shares in the future without seeking any approval from holders of our Ordinary Shares. In addition, we may issue debt securities that accrue interest and have priority over our Ordinary Shares with respect to liquidations The trading price of our Ordinary Shares may decline. The trading price of our Ordinary Shares may decline for many reasons, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: · our results of operations; · changes in expectations as to our future results of operations, including financial estimates and projections by securities analysts and investors; · dilution caused by the issuance of additional securities; · results of operations that vary from those expected by securities analysts and investors; · developments in the healthcare or insurance industries; · changes in laws and regulations; · announcements of claims against us by third parties; · future sales of our Ordinary Shares; · lack of liquidity available to our shareholders; · fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affect returns on invested assets; · changes in the frequency or severity of claims; · the financial stability of our reinsurers and changes in the level of reinsurance capacity and our capital and surplus; · new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of liabilities of insurance companies; · volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; and · price competition. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of companies whose shares are traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our Ordinary Shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. 26 