ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our stockholders. You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating our Company, our properties and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to, among other things, satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders, which in turn could cause our stockholders to lose all or a part of their investment. Some statements in this report including statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report. Risks Related to Our Debt Financing We depend on external sources of capital to fund our growth and refinance existing indebtedness, which capital may not be available to us at all or on terms favorable or acceptable to us. In each of 2008 and 2009, the cash that we used for the development of data center facilities exceeded the cash provided by our operating activities. Our operating activities are not expected to generate sufficient cash to provide the capital necessary to develop land that we hold for future data center development, including our SC1 data center facility, to construct the second phases of our CH1 and NJ1 data center facilities or to refinance our existing indebtedness, in part because, as a REIT, we are required under the Code to distribute at least 90% of our taxable net income to our stockholders annually. Consequently, we rely on third-party sources of capital to fund our development projects and refinance our existing indebtedness. Our access to capital depends, in part, on: • general market conditions; • the market’s perception of our business prospects and growth potential; • our current debt levels; • our current and expected earnings and cash flow; and • the market price of our common stock. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing at all or on terms favorable or acceptable to us. Future increases in interest rates and credit spreads would increase interest expense related to our floating rate indebtedness and affect our results of operations negatively, which could in turn reduce our access to the capital markets. If we are unable to obtain capital from third parties, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity, which may include curtailing development activity (such as the temporary suspension of development at our ACC5 and NJ1 projects and the ongoing suspension of our SC1 project) or disposing of one or more of our properties possibly on disadvantageous terms. Disruptions in the financial markets may materially and adversely affect our ability to secure additional financing. The credit markets continue to experience significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, the concern of which has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases cease, to provide credit to businesses and has caused spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. Continued uncertainty in these markets may affect our ability to obtain debt financing at all or on terms favorable or acceptable to us. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. 12 Table of Contents We have significant outstanding indebtedness, which requires that we generate significant cash flow to satisfy the payment and other obligations under our debt instruments. As of December 31, 2009, our total consolidated indebtedness was $898.5 million. This level of indebtedness exceeds our cash on hand and our annual cash flows from operating activities. Our ability to meet the payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. Our ability to generate cash flow, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our senior notes and our credit agreements and to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets (which we may be limited in doing in light of the relatively illiquid nature of our properties), reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the senior notes and our other debt obligations, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity. The documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness restrict our ability to engage in some business activities, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects, future operating results and financial condition. The documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness contain customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to make certain investments; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to merge with another company; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to create, incur or assume liens; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to sell or transfer assets; • restrict our ability to make distributions to our stockholders; and • require us to maintain financial coverage ratios. These restrictions may limit our ability to make acquisitions or take advantage of other business opportunities that may arise and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects, future operating results and financial condition. The documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness require that we maintain certain financial ratios and, if we fail to do so, we will be in default under the applicable debt instrument, which in turn could trigger defaults under our other debt instruments, which could result in the maturities of all of our debt obligations being accelerated. Each of our debt instruments requires that we maintain certain financial ratios. Each of our two secured credit agreements—one secured by our ACC4 data center facility and the other secured by our ACC5 data center facility and the land on which we intend to develop our ACC6 data center facility—provides that the total indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries cannot exceed 65% of the value of the assets of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, determined based on the appraised value of stabilized data center properties, the amount of unrestricted cash and the book value of development properties and undeveloped land. Under these credit agreements, each respective administrative agent has the right to have each of our stabilized data center properties appraised. If the total indebtedness of the Operating Partnership exceeded 65% of the applicable asset value, the indebtedness in question would have to be reduced to a level that resulted in compliance with this ratio. 13 Table of Contents In addition, the indenture that governs our senior notes requires that the Operating Partnership and our subsidiaries that guaranty the notes maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of their unsecured debt on a consolidated basis. If we do not continue to satisfy these covenants ratios, we will be in default under the applicable debt instrument, which in turn could trigger defaults under our other debt instruments, which could result in the maturities of all of our debt obligations being accelerated. These events would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Indebtedness secured by our properties expose us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of the property that secures the indebtedness and any rents to which we would be entitled from leases on that property. The obligations under each of our two credit agreements are secured by certain properties that we own. The obligations under one of our secured credit agreements—with an outstanding principal balance at December 31, 2009 of $198.5 million—is secured by our ACC4 data center facility, and the obligations under our other secured credit agreement—with an outstanding principal balance at December 31, 2009 of $150.0 million—is secured by our ACC5 data center facility and the land on which we intend to develop our ACC6 data center facility. A default on any of this indebtedness could result in foreclosure actions by our lenders and the loss of the property securing the indebtedness and an assignment to the lenders of our rents and leases related to any such property. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any such property would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the underlying indebtedness. If the outstanding balance of this debt exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds from the disposition of the properties. In the future, we may assume or incur additional indebtedness secured by one or more properties that we own or in connection with property acquisitions. We may be unable to satisfy our debt obligations upon a change of control of us. Under the documents that govern our indebtedness, if we experience a change of control, we could be required to repay the entire principal balance of our outstanding indebtedness. Under our ACC4 credit agreement, a change of control, as defined in the credit agreement, is deemed an event of default, which would give the lender the right, among other things, to accelerate the maturity of the loan. Under our ACC5 credit agreement, if we experience a change of control, as defined in the credit agreement, the lenders have the right to accelerate the maturity of the loan. Under our senior notes indenture, if we experience a change of control, as defined in the indenture, we must offer to purchase the notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued interest. We might not have sufficient funds to repay the outstanding principal amount under the term loans or pay the required price for the notes following a change of control. Under the ACC4 credit agreement, we are deemed to have experienced a change of control if Messrs. du Pont or Fateh cease to be one of our senior management executives and a competent and experienced successor senior management executive has not been approved by the lenders within three months of such event. Under the ACC5 credit agreement, we are deemed to have experienced a change of control if Mr. Fateh ceases to be one of our senior management executives and a comparable, competent and experienced successor senior management executive has not been approved by the lenders within 150 days of such event. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We face significant competition and may be unable to lease vacant space, renew existing leases, or re-lease space as leases expire, which may have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of technology-related real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential tenants, significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources and more ready access to capital, all of which allows them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities. If our competitors offer space that our tenants or potential tenants perceive to be superior to ours based on numerous factors, including available power, security considerations, location, or connectivity, or if they offer rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we are offering, we may lose tenants or potential tenants or be required to incur costs to improve our properties or reduce our rental rates. We may be unable to renew leases or re-lease at net effective rental rates equal to or above the current average net effective rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, or our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space and space for which leases are scheduled to expire, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Any decrease in the demand for data centers, including resulting from a downturn in the technology industry, could materially adversely affect our business and business prospects. Our portfolio of properties consists entirely of wholesale data centers leased primarily by technology companies. A decline in the technology industry could lead to a decrease in the demand for space in our data centers, which would have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. We are also susceptible to adverse developments in the technology industry such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors. We also may be materially adversely affected by any downturns in the market for data centers due to, among other things, oversupply of or reduced demand for space or a slowdown in web-based commerce. Also, a lack of demand for data center space by enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and business prospects. Our tenants may choose to develop new data centers or expand their own existing data centers, which could result in the loss of one or more key tenants or reduce demand for our newly developed data centers, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Some of our tenants, including Microsoft and Yahoo!, have developed their own data center facilities. These and other tenants may choose to develop new data centers or expand any existing data centers of their own in the future. In the event that any of our key tenants were to do so, it could result in a loss of business to us or put pressure on our pricing. If we lose a tenant, there is no assurance that we would be able to replace that tenant at a competitive rate or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. As of January 1, 2010, our three largest tenants, Microsoft, Yahoo! and Facebook, collectively accounted for 66% of our annualized base rent, and the loss of any such tenant or any other significant tenant could have a materially adverse affect on our business. As of January 1, 2010, our three largest tenants, Microsoft, Yahoo! and Facebook, accounted for 66% of our annualized base rent. Any of our tenants could experience a downturn in their businesses, which in turn could result in their inability or failure to make timely rental payments under their leases with us. In the event of any tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. These risks would be particularly significant if one of our largest tenants, such as Microsoft, Yahoo! or Facebook, were to default under its lease. In addition, if one or more of our significant tenants fail to renew their leases with us and we could not find new tenants to utilize this space at the same rental 15 Table of Contents rates, the expiration of these leases, as well as any future lease expirations, could have a material adverse affect on our business. Some of our largest tenants may compete with one another in various aspects of their businesses. The competitive pressures on our tenants may have a negative impact on our operations. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant would have a material adverse impact on our business. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may materially adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the federal Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In either case, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. Our business, including our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders, could be materially adversely affected if any of our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, suffer a downturn in its business, or fail to renew its lease at all or renew on terms less favorable to us than its current terms. Future consolidation in the technology industry could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations by eliminating some of our potential tenants and could make us more dependent on a more limited number of tenants. Mergers or consolidations of technology companies in the future could reduce the number of our tenants and potential tenants. If our tenants merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our tenants, they may discontinue or reduce the use of our data centers in the future. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our growth depends upon the successful development of our data centers, and unexpected costs or changes in permitting or environmental regulations may delay or preclude the construction of our data centers, thereby materially adversely affecting our growth prospects, future operating results and our financial condition. With respect to our current and any future developments, we will be subject to certain risks, including risks related to financing, zoning, environmental and other regulatory approvals, construction costs and other risks that would result in a delay in completion of the applicable project. Any delay or denial of an applicable entitlement or permit, including zoning, land use, environmental, emissions or other related permits would impact our plans for future development adversely. Changes to any applicable regulations, including changes to air quality standards or emissions limitations, that are applicable to us could delay or preclude our ability to construct or operate our data center facilities, which would have a material adverse effect on our growth and future results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we will be subject to risks and, potentially, unanticipated costs associated with obtaining access to a sufficient amount of power from local utilities, including the need, in some cases, to develop utility substations on our properties in order to accommodate our power needs, constraints on the amount of electricity that a particular locality’s power grid is capable of providing at any given time, and risks associated with the negotiation of long-term power contracts with utility providers. We may not be able to successfully negotiate such contracts on acceptable terms or at all. Any inability to negotiate utility contracts on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms or in volumes sufficient to supply the critical load presently anticipated for each of our development properties would have a material adverse effect on our growth and future results of operations and financial condition. We generally commence development of a data center facility prior to having received any commitments from tenants to lease any space in them. We generally commence development of a data center facility prior to having received any commitments from tenants to lease any space in them—known as developing “on speculation.” This type of development involves the risk that we will be unable to attract tenants to the properties that we are developing on a timely basis or at all. Once development of a data center facility is complete, we incur a certain amount of operating expenses even if there are no tenants occupying any space. Consequently, if any of our properties have 16 Table of Contents significant vacancies for an extended period of time, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The loss of access to key third-party technical service providers and suppliers could materially adversely affect our current and any future development projects. Our success depends, to a significant degree, on having timely access to certain key technical personnel who are in limited supply and great demand, such as engineering firms and construction contractors capable of developing our properties, and to key suppliers of electrical and mechanical equipment that complement the design of our data center facilities. For our current and any future development projects, we will continue to rely on these personnel and suppliers to develop wholesale data centers. Competition for such technical expertise is intense, and there are a limited number of electrical and mechanical equipment suppliers that design and produce the equipment that we require. We may not always have or retain access to the key service providers and equipment suppliers on which we rely which could materially adversely affect our current and any future development projects. We depend on third parties to provide Internet connectivity to the tenants in our data centers and any delays or disruptions in connectivity may materially adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. Our tenants require connectivity to the fiber networks of multiple third party telecommunications carriers, and we depend upon the presence of telecommunications carriers’ fiber networks serving the locations of our data centers in order to attract and retain tenants. Any carrier may elect not to offer its services within our data centers, and any carrier that has decided to provide Internet connectivity to our data centers may not continue to do so for any period of time. If carriers were to consolidate or otherwise downsize or terminate connectivity within our data centers, it could have an adverse effect on the businesses of our tenants and, in turn, our own operating results and cash flow. Our new data centers require construction and operation of a sophisticated redundant fiber network. The construction required to connect multiple carrier facilities to our data centers is complex and involves factors outside of our control, including regulatory requirements and the availability of construction resources. If the establishment of highly diverse Internet connectivity to our data centers does not occur, is materially delayed or is discontinued, or is subject to failure, our operating results and cash flow may be materially adversely affected. Any hardware or fiber failures on this network may result in significant loss of connectivity to our data centers, which could negatively affect our ability to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. Failure to abide by applicable service level commitments could subject us to material liability under the terms of our leases, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our leases generally include terms requiring us to meet certain service level commitments primarily in terms of electrical output to, and maintenance of environmental conditions in, the computing rooms leased by tenants. Any failure to meet these commitments, including as a result of mechanical failure, power outage, human error on our part or for other reasons, could subject us to liability under our lease terms, including loss of management fee reimbursements or rent abatement, or, in certain cases of repeated failures, give the tenant a right to terminate the lease. Any such failures could also materially adversely affect our reputation and adversely impact our ability to lease our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current portfolio of completed operating properties is located entirely in Northern Virginia and suburban Chicago, Illinois, and any adverse developments in the economies or regulatory environments of these areas may materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Because our current portfolio of operating properties is located in Northern Virginia and suburban Chicago, Illinois, we may be exposed to greater economic risks than if our portfolio was more geographically diverse. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the Northern Virginia and Chicago economic and regulatory environment, including, but not limited to, business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of 17 Table of Contents businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes and costs of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation. Any adverse developments in the economy or real estate market in Northern Virginia or Chicago in general, or any decrease in demand for data center space resulting from the Northern Virginia or Chicago regulatory or business environment, could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our data center infrastructure may become obsolete and we may not be able to upgrade our power and cooling systems cost-effectively or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The markets for the data centers we own and operate, as well as the industries in which our tenants operate, are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service introductions, shifting distribution channels and changing tenant demands. Our data center infrastructure may become obsolete due to the development of new systems to deliver power to or eliminate heat from the servers we house. Additionally, our data center infrastructure could become obsolete as a result of the development of new server technology that does not require the levels of critical load and heat removal that our facilities are designed to provide and could be run less expensively on a different platform. In addition, our power and cooling systems are difficult and expensive to upgrade. Accordingly, we may not be able to efficiently upgrade or change these systems to meet new demands or industry standards without incurring significant costs that we may not be able to pass on to our tenants. The obsolescence of our power and cooling systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our properties are not suitable for lease other than as data centers, which could make it difficult to reposition them if we are not able to lease available space. Our data centers are designed solely to house and run computer servers and related equipment and, therefore, contain extensive electrical and mechanical systems and infrastructure. As a result, they are not suited for use by tenants as anything other than as data centers and major renovations and expenditures would be required in order for us to re-lease vacant space for more traditional uses, or for us to sell a property to a buyer for use other than as a data center. Declining real estate valuations could result in impairment charges that would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We review our properties for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, a sustained significant decrease in the market price of or the cash flows expected to be derived from the property. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining the presence of an indicator of impairment. If the total of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of a property, a loss is recognized for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the property. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows requires a significant amount of judgment regarding assumptions that could differ materially from actual results in future periods, including assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements. Any impairment charge would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any losses to our properties which are not covered by insurance, or which exceed our policy coverage limits, would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio, which includes coverage for riots, terrorism, acts of God and floods that are subject to policy specifications and insured limits. In addition, some of our policies, like those covering losses due to floods, are subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover potential losses. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or exceeds policy limits, 18 Table of Contents we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. These events would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We could become subject to liability for failure to comply with environmental and other laws and regulations. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations regarding the handling of regulated substances and wastes, including, in particular, regulations regarding the storage of petroleum for auxiliary or emergency power. The properties in our portfolio are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those related to: air quality and exhaust emissions; discharges of treated and storm water; and health, safety and fire (See “Item 1—Business—Regulation—Environmental Matters”). If we or our tenants fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or other sanctions or private damage awards. Moreover, existing requirements could change and future requirements could require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by regulations related to climate change. If we, or other companies with which we do business, particularly utilities that provide our facilities with electricity, become subject to laws or regulations related to climate change, our results of operations and financial condition could be impacted adversely. Hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in material losses. The terms of our ACC5 credit agreement require us to enter into an interest rate protection agreement within 120 days of December 2, 2009, the date of the credit agreement. We may also use derivatives to hedge other liabilities of ours from time to time. As of December 31, 2009, we had no hedging transaction in place. Any hedging transactions into which we enter could expose us to certain risks, including: • losses on a hedge position may reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders and such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments; • counterparties to a hedging arrangement could default on their obligations; • we may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction or brokerage fees; and. • we may incur costs if we elect to terminate a hedging agreement early, such as was the case with the interest rate swap agreement we terminated in December 2009. Although the REIT rules impose certain restrictions on our ability to utilize hedges, swaps, and other types of derivatives to hedge our liabilities, we may use these hedging instruments in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. However, hedges may not be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position. Our profitability may be materially adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of such derivatives. The departure of any key personnel, including either Messrs. du Pont or Fateh, who have developed significant relationships with leading technology tenants in the highly specialized data center business, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We depend on the efforts of key personnel, particularly Messrs. du Pont and Fateh, the Executive Chairman of our board of directors and our President and Chief Executive Officer, respectively. In particular, our reputation among and our relationships with our key tenants are the direct result of a significant investment of time and effort by Messrs. du Pont and Fateh to build our credibility in a highly specialized industry. If we lost their 19 Table of Contents services, our business and investment opportunities and our relationships with existing and prospective tenants and industry personnel and our reputation among our key tenants could be diminished, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. This risk may be even more pronounced given the terms of certain of our debt instruments. See “Risks Related to Our Debt Financing—We may be unable to satisfy our debt obligations upon a change of control of us.” Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease our cash available for distribution, as well as the value of our properties. These events include, but are not limited to: • inability to collect rent from tenants; • vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms, including possible market pressures to offer tenants rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options; • adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties, including data centers; • reductions in the level of demand or increase in the supply for data center space; • inability to finance development on favorable terms; • fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, including data centers, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; • increases in expenses that are not paid for by or cannot be passed on to our tenants; • changes in, and in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, and the costs of compliance thereof; and • the relative illiquidity of real estate investments, especially the specialized real estate properties that we hold and seek to acquire and develop. Illiquidity of real estate investments and the terms of certain of our leases could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio to raise cash in response to adverse changes in the performance of such properties may be limited, thus materially adversely affecting our financial condition. In addition, data centers represent an illiquid part of the overall real estate market, due to the relatively small number of potential purchasers of such data centers—including other data center operators and large corporate users—and the relatively high cost per square foot to develop data centers, which limits a potential buyer’s ability to purchase a data center property with the intention of redeveloping it for an alternative use, such as an office building, or may substantially reduce the price buyers are willing to pay for the property. In addition, certain of our leases give the tenant a right of first refusal to purchase certain properties if we propose to sell those properties to a third party or prohibit us from selling certain properties to a third party that is a competitor of the tenant. The existence of such restrictions could hinder our ability to sell one or more of these properties, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents The terms of the agreements that govern our indebtedness limit our ability to sell the data center properties that have been pledged as collateral for our indebtedness, which could reduce our liquidity. Two of our income producing data center properties—ACC4 and ACC5—serve as collateral to existing term loans. The agreements that govern these loans limit our ability to sell these properties. The indenture that governs our senior notes limits our ability to sell or transfer assets and, under certain circumstances, requires that we use any net cash proceeds to reduce outstanding indebtedness. Consequently, our ability to raise capital through the disposition of assets is limited. Our tax protection agreements could limit our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of certain properties. In connection with our formation transactions and IPO, we entered into tax protection agreements with a number of limited partners of the Operating Partnership, including Messrs. du Pont and Fateh and certain of our directors. The agreements provide that, if we dispose of any interest in ACC2, ACC3, VA3, VA4 or CH1 in a taxable transaction through the year 2016, we will indemnify these partners for their tax liabilities attributable to the built-in gain that exists with respect to such property interest as of the time of our IPO (and tax liabilities incurred as a result of the reimbursement payment) if those tax liabilities exceed a certain amount. Consequently, although it otherwise may be in our best interest to sell one of these properties, these obligations may make it prohibitive for us to do so. In addition, any such sale must be approved by at least 75% of our disinterested directors. Additionally, the agreement contains various provisions to achieve minimum liability allocations to certain limited partners and indemnifies them for their tax liabilities resulting from any gain or income recognized due to breach of those provisions by the Operating Partnership. As the present or former owner or operator of real property, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. Under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances that relate to the protection of the environment, a current or former owner, operator or tenant of real property may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or petroleum products on, under, from or in such property. These costs could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several. Previous owners of some or our properties—including previous owners of sites where our CH1 facility is located, our NJ1 and SC1 development properties are located and the undeveloped land for our ACC7 facility—used these properties for industrial and retail purposes. As a result, these properties may (and in the case of the NJ1 property, did) contain some level of environmental contamination (See Business—Regulation—Environmental Matters above). In addition, many of our properties presently contain large underground fuel storage tanks for emergency power, which is critical to our operations. We likely would be liable for contamination that results from a release of fuel from any of these storage tanks. Moreover, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability or materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. As the owner of real property, we could become subject to liability for asbestos-containing building materials in the buildings on our property. Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental laws require that owners or operators of buildings with asbestos-containing building materials properly manage and maintain these materials, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. In addition, these laws may also allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials. 21 Table of Contents Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other adverse conditions, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediation. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, and similar laws, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A number of additional federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with the ADA. If one of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA, we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other similar legislation, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may incur significant costs complying with other regulations, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. In addition, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future with holders of units of partnership interest in our Operating Partnership, or OP units, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our stockholders. Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and our Operating Partnership or any of its partners, on the other. Our directors and officers have duties to our Company and our stockholders under applicable Maryland law. At the same time, we, as general partner, have fiduciary duties to our Operating Partnership and to its limited partners under Maryland law. Our duties as general partner to our Operating Partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our Company and our stockholders. The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership provides that for so long as we are the general partner of our Operating Partnership, any conflict that cannot be resolved in a manner not adverse to either our stockholders or the limited partners will be resolved in favor of our stockholders. 22 Table of Contents Additionally, the partnership agreement expressly limits our liability by providing that we and our officers, directors, agents and employees, will not be liable or accountable to our Operating Partnership for losses sustained, liabilities incurred or benefits not derived if we, or such officer, director, agent or employee acted in good faith. In addition, our Operating Partnership is required to indemnify us, and our officers, directors, employees, agents and designees to the extent permitted by applicable law from and against any and all claims arising from operations of our Operating Partnership, unless it is established that (1) the act or omission was committed in bad faith, was fraudulent or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (2) the indemnified party received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the indemnified person had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. The provisions of Maryland law that allow the fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect were it not for the partnership agreement. We are also subject to the following additional conflicts of interest with holders of OP units: We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of the employment agreements with Messrs. du Pont and Fateh and their affiliates because of our dependence on them and conflicts of interest. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh entered into employment agreements with us, including clauses prohibiting them from competing with us, subject to certain exceptions, in the data center market. Neither of these agreements was negotiated on an arm’s-length basis. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these employment agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with Messrs. du Pont and Fateh and their affiliates and because of conflicts of interest with them, including allowing them to devote significant time to non-data center projects outside of our Company, to engage in activities that may compete with us, or to engage in transactions with us without receiving the appropriate board approval. Tax consequences upon sale or refinancing. Sales of properties and repayment of related indebtedness will have different effects on holders of OP units than on our stockholders. The parties that contributed properties to our Operating Partnership may incur tax consequences upon the sale of these properties and on the repayment of related debt which differ from the tax consequences to us and our stockholders. Consequently, these holders of OP units may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any such sale or repayment of debt. Although we have exclusive authority under the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership to determine when to refinance or repay debt or whether, when, and on what terms to sell a property, any such decision would require the approval of our board of directors, and our ability to take such actions, to the extent that they may reduce the liabilities of our Operating Partnership, may be limited pursuant to the tax protection agreements that we entered into upon completion of our IPO. Certain of our directors and executive officers could exercise their influence in a manner inconsistent with the interests of some, or a majority, of our stockholders, including in a manner which could delay or prevent completion of a sale of a property or the repayment of indebtedness. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh have the right to hold a significant percentage of our stock. Our charter generally authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person (other than a qualified institutional investor) to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 3.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive and 3.3% of our outstanding capital stock by value. Our board of directors, however, has granted, and in the future may grant, exemptions from the ownership limits described above if such exemptions do not jeopardize our status as a REIT. In addition, our charter provides that Mr. du Pont, certain of his affiliates, family members and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing, may own up to 20.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, and 20.0% of our outstanding capital stock by value, and that Mr. Fateh, certain of his affiliates, family members and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing, may own up to 20.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, and 20.0% of our outstanding capital stock 23 Table of Contents by value. These exemptions from the general ownership limits give Messrs. du Pont and Fateh the ability to own a combined interest in our stock equal to 40.0% of our shares outstanding. In addition, pursuant to their employment agreements, each of Messrs. du Pont and Fateh, as long as he holds at least 9.8% of our outstanding shares on a fully diluted basis, will have a contractual right to be nominated to the board of directors. These exemptions and contractual rights could allow Messrs. du Pont and Fateh to exercise, individually or in concert, a substantial degree of control over our affairs even if they are no longer executive officers. Our senior management team has significant influence over our affairs. As of December 31, 2009, Messrs. du Pont and Fateh, own an aggregate of approximately 1.2% of our common stock (including shares of unvested restricted common stock) and approximately 43.6% of our OP units (not including those units held by us), equal to approximately 17.0% of our common stock, on a fully diluted basis. As a result, our senior management team, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, can have influence over our affairs and could exercise such influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our other stockholders, including by attempting to delay, defer or prevent a change in control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. If our senior management team exercises their redemption rights with respect to their OP units and we issue common stock in exchange thereof, our senior management team’s influence over our affairs would increase substantially. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh have outside business interests that could require time and attention and may interfere with their ability to devote time to our business and affairs. Although under the terms of our employment agreements with Messrs. du Pont and Fateh in which each has agreed to devote substantially all of his business attention and time to our affairs, Messrs. du Pont and Fateh own interests in non-data center real estate assets, including, among other investments, the office building where our corporate headquarters is located, and undeveloped land located outside of Phoenix, Arizona and in Northern Virginia. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh have also agreed, for the terms of their employment with us not to sell any of this land to a competitor of our Company, as determined by at least 75% of our independent directors. Any purchase by us of the undeveloped land held by Messrs. du Pont and Fateh would require the approval of at least 75% of our independent directors. Our charter and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control transaction, even if such a change in control may be in our stockholders’ interest, and as a result may depress our stock price. Our charter contains a 3.3% ownership limit. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to ensure our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person (other than a qualified institutional investor or an excepted holder) to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 3.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, and 3.3% of our outstanding capital stock by value. This ownership limit may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. We could increase the number of authorized shares of stock and issue stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock or the number of authorized shares of stock of any class or series, to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or unclassified shares. Although our board of directors has no such intention at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to 24 Table of Contents acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our Company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have opted out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL by a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws (which such amendment could be adopted by our board of directors in its sole discretion), opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. The provisions of our charter on removal of directors and the advance notice provisions of our bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our Company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interest. Likewise, if our Company’s board of directors were to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL or adopt a classified board of directors pursuant to Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL, or if the provision in our bylaws opting out of the control share acquisition provisions of the MGCL were rescinded, these provisions could have similar anti-takeover effects. Further, our partnership agreement provides that we may not engage in any merger, consolidation or other combination with or into another person, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any reclassification or any recapitalization or change in outstanding shares of our common stock, unless in connection with such transaction we obtain the consent of holders of at least 50% of the OP units of our Operating Partnership (not including OP units held by us) and/or certain other conditions are met. Certain provisions in the partnership agreement for our Operating Partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us. Provisions in the partnership agreement for our Operating Partnership may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others: • redemption rights of qualifying parties; • transfer restrictions on our OP units; • our ability, as general partner, in some cases, to amend the partnership agreement without the consent of the limited partners; and • the right of the limited partners to consent to transfers of the general partnership interest and mergers under specified circumstances. 25 Table of Contents Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. As permitted by the MGCL, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. In addition, our charter authorizes us to obligate our Company, and our bylaws require us, to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Accordingly, in the event that actions taken in good faith by any of our directors or officers impede the performance of our Company, stockholders’ ability to recover damages from such director or officer will be limited. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to accurately and timely report our financial results. If we fail to maintain proper overall business controls, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, including the accurate and timely reporting of our financial results. In addition, the existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our consolidated financial statements that could require a restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to, among other things, a decline in the market value of our common stock. Future offerings of debt or equity securities or preferred stock, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation and for the purpose of distributions, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred stock or common stock. For example, in December 2009 our Operating Partnership offered and sold $550 million 8 1/2% senior unsecured notes due 2017. We will be able to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval, unless stockholder approval is required by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which our securities may be listed or traded. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. As data center acquisition or development opportunities arise from time to time, we may issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to raise the capital necessary to finance these acquisitions or developments or may issue common stock or preferred stock or OP units, which are redeemable for, at our option, cash or our common stock on a one-to-one basis, to acquire such properties. Such issuances could result in dilution of stockholders’ equity. Preferred stock and debt, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend or interest payments that could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering or acquisition will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, 26 Table of Contents timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT Failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock. We are a real estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax purposes. Requirements under the Code for qualification and taxation as a REIT are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a REIT are limited. In addition, new laws, regulations, interpretations, or court decisions may change the federal income tax laws or the federal income tax consequences of our qualification and taxation as a REIT. As a result, no assurance can be provided that we will continue to qualify as a REIT or that new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the federal income tax laws with respect to, or the federal income tax consequences of, our qualification and taxation as a REIT. If we were to lose our REIT status, the tax consequences could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders substantially for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. The additional tax liability to us for the year or years in which we do not qualify as a REIT would reduce our net earnings available for investment, debt service or distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, non-U.S. stockholders that own 5% or more of any class of our shares, who otherwise might not be subject to federal income tax on the sale of our shares, could be subject to federal income tax with respect to any gain on a net basis similar to the taxation of a U.S. stockholder. In addition, if we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as ordinary dividend income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, the sources of our income and the diversity of our stock ownership. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding net capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may materially adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Failure to qualify as a domestically-controlled REIT could subject our non-U.S. stockholders to adverse federal income tax consequences. We will be a domestically-controlled REIT if, at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% in value of our shares is held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. stockholders. However, because our shares are 27 Table of Contents publicly traded, we cannot guarantee that we will, in fact, be a domestically-controlled REIT. If we fail to qualify as a domestically-controlled REIT, our non-U.S. stockholders that otherwise would not be subject to federal income tax on the gain attributable to a sale of our shares of common stock would be subject to taxation upon such a sale if either (a) the shares of common stock were not considered to be regularly traded under applicable Treasury Regulations on an established securities market, such as The New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, or (b) the selling non-U.S. stockholder owned, actually or constructively, more than 5% in value of the outstanding shares of common stock being sold during specified testing periods. If gain on the sale or exchange of our shares of common stock was subject to taxation for these reasons, the non-U.S. stockholder would be subject to regular U.S. income tax with respect to any gain on a net basis in a manner similar to the taxation of a taxable U.S. stockholder, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals, and corporate non-U.S. stockholders may be subject to an additional branch profits tax. If the structural components of our properties were not treated as real property for purposes of the REIT qualification requirements, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. A significant portion of the value of our properties is attributable to structural components related to the provision of electricity, heating ventilation and air conditioning, humidification regulation, security and fire protection, and telecommunication services. We have received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) holding, among other things, that our buildings, including the structural components, constitute real property for purposes of the REIT qualification requirements. We are entitled to rely upon that private letter ruling only to the extent that we did not misstate or omit a material fact in the ruling request we submitted to the IRS and that we operate in the future in accordance with the material facts described in that request. Moreover, the IRS, in its sole discretion, may revoke the private letter ruling. If our structural components are determined not to constitute real property for purposes of the REIT qualification requirements, including as a result of our being unable to rely upon the private letter ruling or the IRS revoking that ruling, we would fail to qualify as a REIT, which could have a material adverse impact on the value of our common stock. If our Operating Partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that our Operating Partnership is organized and operated in a manner so as to be treated as a partnership, and not an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is allocated that partner’s share of our Operating Partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge our Operating Partnership’s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our Operating Partnership as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, would cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of our Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of its cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. We will be subject to some taxes even though we qualify as a REIT. Even though we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, we pay tax on certain types of income that we do not distribute. In addition, if assessed, we would incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. A TRS is a corporation which is owned, directly or indirectly, by us and which, together with us, makes an election to be treated as our TRS. In addition, our TRS is subject to federal income tax as a corporation on its taxable income, if any, which consists of the revenues mainly derived from providing technical services, on a contract basis, to our tenants. The after-tax net income of our TRS is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed. 28 Table of Contents Moreover, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. Changes in taxation of corporate dividends may materially adversely affect the value of our shares. The maximum marginal rate of tax payable by domestic non-corporate taxpayers on dividends received from a regular “C” corporation under current law is 15% through 2010, as opposed to higher ordinary income rates. The reduced tax rate, however, does not apply to distributions paid to taxpayers taxed at individual rates by a REIT on its stock, except for certain limited amounts. Although the earnings of a REIT that are distributed to its stockholders generally remain subject to less federal income taxation than earnings of a non-REIT “C” corporation that are distributed to its stockholders net of corporate-level income tax, legislation that extends the application of the 15% rate to dividends paid after 2010 by “C” corporations could cause taxpayers taxed at individual rates to view the stock of regular “C” corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of a REIT, because the dividends from regular “C” corporations would continue to be taxed at a lower rate while distributions from REITs (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends and qualified dividend income) are generally taxed at the same rate as the taxpayer’s other ordinary income. We will have a reduced carryover tax basis on certain of our assets as a result of the formation transactions, which could reduce our depreciation deductions. All of our operating properties have a carryover tax basis that is lower than the fair market value of the property. This position could give rise to lower depreciation deductions on these assets that would have the effect of (1) increasing the distribution requirement imposed on us, which could materially adversely affect our ability to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, and (2) decreasing the extent to which our distributions are treated as tax-free “return of capital” distributions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 