Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Operations There are risks relating to investments in real estate. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. Real estate values are affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the general economic climate, local conditions (such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in an area), the quality and philosophy of management, competition from other available space, the ability of the owner to provide adequate maintenance and insurance and to control variable operating costs. Shopping centers, in particular, may be affected by changing perceptions of retailers or shoppers regarding the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the shopping center, increasing consumer purchases through online retail websites and catalogs, the ongoing co nsolidation in the retail sector and by the overall climate for the retail industry generally. Real estate values are also affected by such factors as government regulations, interest rate levels, the availability of financing and potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning, tax and other laws. A significant portion of our income is derived from rental income from real property. Our income and cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants were unable to meet their obligations, or if we were unable to lease on economically favorable terms a significant amount of space in our properties. In the event of default by a tenant, we may experience delays in enforcing, and incur substantial costs to enforce, our rights as a landlord. In addition, certain significant expenditures associated with each equity investment (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) are generally not reduced w hen circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. We operate in a highly competitive market and competition may limit our ability to acquire desirable assets and to attract and retain tenants. We operate in a highly competitive market. Our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire our target assets at favorable prices and on trends impacting the retail industry in general, national, regional and local economic conditions, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Other companies may raise significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours. In addition, the properties that we acquire may face competition from si milar properties in the same market. This competition may create additional competition for opportunities to acquire assets and to attract and retain tenants. We may change any of our strategies, policies or procedures without stockholder consent, which could adversely affect our business. We may change any of our strategies, policies or procedures with respect to acquisitions, asset allocation, growth, operations, indebtedness, financing strategy and distributions, including those related to maintaining our REIT qualification, at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in making acquisitions that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of acquisitions described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A change in our strategy may increase our exposure to real estate market fluctuations, financing risk, default risk and interest rate risk. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in us making acquisitions in asset categories different from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These changes could adversely af fect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock or warrants and our ability to make distributions to the stockholders. Our executive officers and directors are subject to potential conflicts of interest. Our executive officers and directors face conflicts of interest. Except for Messrs. Tanz, Roche and Schoebel, none of our executive officers or directors are required to commit his full time to our affairs and, - 6 - accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities. In addition, except for Messrs. Tanz, Roche and Schoebel, each of our executive officers and directors is engaged in several other business endeavors and they are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. In the course of their other business activities, our executive officers and directors may become aware of investment and business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are affiliated. They may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. As a result of multiple business affiliations, our executive officers and directors may have legal obligations relating to presenting opportunities to acquire one or more properties, portfolios or real estate-related debt investments to other entities. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise when our board of directors evaluates a particular opportunity. Subject to the limitations described in the employment agreements applicable to Messrs. Tanz, Roche, Schoebel and Baker, our executive officers and directors may present such opportunities to the other entities to which they owe a pre-existing fiduciary duty before presenting such opportunities to us. We have limited operating history and may not be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders. On October 20, 2009, we commenced operations upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Framework Agreement with NRDC Capital Management, LLC, which, among other things, sets forth the steps to be taken by us to continue our business as a corporation that will elect to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2010 (the "Framework Transactions"). We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our business successfully or implement our policies and strategies as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our ability to provide attractive risk adjusted returns to our stockholders over time is dependent on our ability both to generate sufficient cash flow to pay an attractive dividend and to achieve capital appreciation, and we cannot assure you we will do either. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and make distributions to stockholders. Capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our assets. There are many factors that can affect the value of our assets, including the state of the capital markets and economy. The recent economic downturn negatively affected consumer spending and retail sales, which has adversely impacted the performance and value of retail properties in most regions in the United States. In addition, loans backed by real estate were increasingly difficult to obtain and that difficulty, together with a tightening of lending policies, resulted in a significant contraction in the amount of debt available to fund retail properties. Although we have recently seen a gradual improvement in the credit markets, any reduction in available financing may adversely affect our ability to achieve our financial objectives. Concern about the stability of the markets generally may l imit our ability and the ability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs which may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. Although we will factor in these conditions in acquiring our target assets, our long term success depends in part on improving economic conditions and the eventual return of a stable and dependable financing market for retail real estate. If market conditions do not eventually improve, our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our assets will be adversely affected. Bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenues and available cash. In the case of many retail properties, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, and could allow other tenants to exercise so-called "kick-out" clauses in their leases and terminate their lease or reduce their rents prior to the normal expiration of their lease terms. As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in a lower level of net income and funds available for the payment of indebtedness or for distribution to stockholders. - 7 - Inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on our mortgages and interest rates and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants' sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable. Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. The Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that a public building be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If, under the Americans with Disabilities Act, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether compliance with the requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. We expect to acquire additional properties and this may create risks. We expect to acquire additional properties consistent with our investment strategies. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions on time or within budget. In addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition opportunities that could increase our costs. When we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover our costs of acquisition or in operating the businesses we acquired. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could result in poorer than anticipated performance. We may also abandon acquisition opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred. Furthermore, acquisitions of new p roperties will expose us to the liabilities of those properties, without any recourse or with only limited recourse, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition, such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by persons in respect of events transpiring or conditions existing before we acquired the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. Factors affecting the general retail environment could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, and in turn, adversely affect us. We expect our properties and our real estate-related debt investments to be focused on the retail real estate market. This means that we will be subject to factors that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from online retail websites and catalog companies. These factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, and in turn, adversely affect us. Our growth depends on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required under Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to annually distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. After we invest our cash on hand, we expect to depend primarily on our Credit Facility and other external financing to fund the growth of our business (including debt and equity financings). Our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. As a result of current economic conditions, we may be limited in our ability to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing debt maturities on favorable terms o r at all and there can be no assurances as to when financing conditions will improve. - 8 - We do not have a formal policy limiting the amount of debt we may incur and our board of directors may change our leverage policy without stockholder consent, which could result in a different risk profile. Although we are not required to maintain any particular leverage ratio, we intend, when appropriate, to employ prudent amounts of leverage and use debt as a means of providing additional funds for the acquisition of our target assets and the diversification of our portfolio. The amount of leverage we will deploy for particular investments in our target assets will depend upon our management team's assessment of a variety of factors, which may include the anticipated liquidity and price volatility of the target assets in our investment portfolio, the potential for losses, the availability and cost of financing the assets, our opinion of the creditworthiness of our financing counterparties, the health of the U.S. economy and commercial mortgage markets, our outlook for the level, slope and volatility of interest rates, the credi t quality of our target assets and the collateral underlying our target assets. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended (our "certificate of incorporation"), does not limit the amount of indebtedness we can incur. Our board of directors may change our leverage policies at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in an investment portfolio with a different risk profile. Your investment return may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act; if we are required to register under the 1940 Act, we will not be able to continue our business. We conduct our operations so that neither we, nor our operating partnership nor any of our other subsidiaries, are required to register as investment companies under the 1940 Act. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the 1940 Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the 1940 Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer's total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the "40% test ." Excluded from the term "investment securities," among other things, are U.S. government securities and securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company set forth in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act. Accordingly, under Section 3(a)(1) of the 1940 Act, in relevant part, a company is not deemed to be an "investment company" if: (i) it neither is, nor holds itself out as being, engaged primarily, nor proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or (ii) it neither is engaged nor proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and does not own or propose to acquire "investment securities" having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis. We believe that we and our oper ating partnership (which is initially wholly-owned by us) will not meet either of the above definitions of investment company as we invest primarily in real property. We expect that a majority of our subsidiaries will be wholly- or majority-owned by us and will have at least 60% of their assets in real property. As these subsidiaries would be investing either solely or primarily in real property, they themselves would be outside of the definition of "investment company" under Section 3(a)(1) of the 1940 Act. As we are organized as a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through our operating partnership, which in turn is a holding company conducting its business through its wholly- or majority-owned subsidiaries, both we and our operating partnership conduct our operations so that we and our operating partnership comply with the 40% test. We also do not believe that we will be considered to be an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the 1940 Act because we will not engage primarily or hold ourselves out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Rather, we will be primarily engaged in the non-investment company businesses of our subsidiaries. We will monitor our holdings to ensure continuing and ongoing compliance with this test. In the event that the value of investment securities held by the subsidiaries of our operating partnership were to exceed 40%, we expect our subsidiaries to be able to rely on the exclusion from the definition of "investment company" provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act. Section 3(c)(5)(C), as interpreted by the staff of the SEC, requires each of our subsidiaries relying on this exception to invest at least 55% of its portfolio in "mortgage and other liens on and interests in real estate," which we refer to as qualifying assets and at least 80% of its assets in qualifying assets and other real estate- related assets. The remaining 20% of the portfolio can consist of miscellaneous assets. What we buy and sell is therefore limited to these criteria. How we determine to classify our asse ts for purposes of the 1940 Act will be based in large measure upon no-action letters issued by the SEC staff and - 9 - other SEC interpretive guidance. No assurance can be given that the SEC staff will concur with our classification of our assets. Future revisions to the 1940 Act or further guidance from the SEC or its staff may cause us to lose our exclusion from registration or force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our investment strategy. Such changes may prevent us from operating our business successfully. To ensure that neither we, nor our operating partnership nor subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company, each entity may be unable to sell assets they would otherwise want to sell and may need to sell assets they would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we, our operating partnership or our other subsidiaries may be required to acquire additional assets that we might not otherwise acquire or forego opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire. Although we, our operating partnership and our other subsidiaries intend to monitor our portfolio periodically and prior to each acquisition and disposition, any of these entities may not be able to maintain an exclusion from registration as an investment company. If we, our operating partnership or o ur other subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company but fail to do so, the unregistered entity would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against such entity. In addition, the contracts of such entity would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of the entity and liquidate its business. Increasing vacancy rates for retail property assets resulting from recent disruptions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the retail property assets we acquire. We depend upon tenants for a majority of our revenue from real property investments. Recent disruptions in the financial markets have resulted in a trend toward increasing vacancy rates for certain classes of commercial property, including retail properties, due to increased tenant delinquencies and/or defaults under leases, generally lower demand for rentable space, as well as potential oversupply of rentable space. Business failures and downsizings have led to reduced consumer demand for retail products and services, which in turn has led to retail business failures or downsizings and reducing demand for retail space. Reduced demand for retail space could require us to increase concessions, tenant improvement expenditures or reduce rental rates to maintain occupancies beyond those anticipated at the tim e we acquire the property. The continuation of disruptions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions could impact certain of the retail properties we may acquire and such properties could experience higher levels of vacancy than anticipated at the time of our acquisition of such properties. The value of our retail property investments could decrease below the amounts we paid for such properties. Revenues from properties could decrease due to lower occupancy rates, reduced rental rates and potential increases in uncollectible rent. We incur expenses, such as for maintenance costs, insurance costs and property taxes, even though a property is vacant. The longer the period of significant vacancies for a property, the greater the potential negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. Real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to conditions in the general economy and the real estate business, which may affect our ability to service our debt and expenses. The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general and local economy and the real estate business. These conditions may also limit our revenues and available cash. The rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. If rental revenues and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decline when the related rents decline. The lack of liquidity of our assets may adversely affect our business, including our ability to value and sell our assets. Real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. In addition, the illiquidity of our investments in commercial mortgage loans and other real estate-related debt investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need or desire arises. Many of the securities we purchase will not be registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or their disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or otherwise in accordance with, those laws. In addition, certain real estate-related debt investments, including mortgage loans, are also particularly illiquid investments due to their short life, their potential unsuitability for securitization and the greater difficulty of recovery - 10 - in the event of a borrower's default. As a result, we expect many of our investments will be illiquid and if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants, some of whom may not be able to pay. Our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. In addition, as a substantial majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to our stockholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. If a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of or a store closure by one or more of these tenants. Regional malls are typically anchored by department stores and other large, nationally recognized tenants. The value of some of the retail properties we acquire could be adversely affected if these tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations or cease their operations. Department store and larger store, also referred to as "big box," consolidations typically result in the closure of existing stores or duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations. We will not control the disposition of those department stores or larger stores nor will we control the vacant space that is not re-leased in those stores. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures. The mod ification could be unfavorable to us as the lessor and could decrease rents or expense recovery charges. Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. If the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to closing of anchors, economic conditions or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of default by a tenant or anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties. Loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce distributions to stockholders. We derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as Safeway, Inc., Haggen and Rite Aid. These tenants are our three largest tenants and accounted for 10.4%, 3.8% and 3.8%, respectively, of our annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis for the year ended December 31, 2010. Distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a major tenant becomes bankrupt or insolvent, experiences a downturn in its business, materially defaults on its leases, does not renew its leases as they expire, or renews at lower rental rates. Our Common Area Maintenance ("CAM") contributions may not allow us to recover the majority of our operating expenses from tenants, which may reduce operating cash flow from our properties. CAM costs typically include allocable energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas, janitorial services, administrative, property and liability insurance costs and security costs. We may acquire properties with leases with variable CAM provisions that adjust to reflect inflationary increases or leases with a fixed CAM payment methodology which fixes our tenants' CAM contributions. With respect to both variable and fixed payment methodologies, the amount of CAM charges we bill to our tenants may not allow us to recover or pass on all these operating expenses to tenants, which may reduce operating cash flow from our properties. We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to - 11 - investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodelling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of l ead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. Identification of compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements could resu lt in significant costs to us. Our investments in mezzanine loans and B-notes may be subject to losses. The B-notes in which we may invest may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. We may acquire mezzanine loans, which are loans made to property owners that are secured by pledges of the borrower's ownership interests, in whole or in part, in entities that directly or indirectly own the real property. The key distinction from mortgage loans is that the most senior portion of the loan with the least credit risk is owned by the senior lender. In the event a borrower defaults on a loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy our loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event a borrower declares bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the loan. In addition, mezzanine loans are by their nature structurally subordinated to more senior property level financings. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the property level debt and other senior debt is paid in full. Similar to our mezzanine loan strategy, we may acquire subordinate interests referred to as B-notes. B-notes are commercial real estate loans secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and subordinated to a senior interest, referred to as an A-note. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B-notes owners after payment to the A-note owners. B-notes reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated commercial mortgage-backed securities. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, B-notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B-notes to control the proc ess following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each B-note investment. Significant losses related to our mezzanine loans and B-notes would result in operating losses for us and may limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may invest in loans to owners of net leased properties and these investments may generate losses. We may invest in commercial mortgage loans to owners of net leased real estate assets. A net lease requires the tenant to pay, in addition to the fixed rent, some or all of the property expenses that normally would be paid by the property owner. The value of our investments and the income from our investments in loans to owners of net leased properties, if any, will depend upon the ability of the applicable tenant to meet its obligations to maintain the property under the terms of the net lease. If a tenant fails or becomes unable to so maintain a property, the borrower would have difficulty making its required loan payments to us. In addition, under many net leases the owner of the property retains certain obligations with respect to the property, including among other things, the responsibili ty for maintenance and repair of the property, to provide adequate parking, maintenance of common areas and compliance with other affirmative covenants in the lease. If the borrower were to fail to meet these obligations, the applicable tenant could abate rent or terminate the applicable lease, which may result in a loss of capital invested in, and anticipated profits from, the property to the borrower and the borrower would have difficulty - 12 - making its required loan payments to us. In addition, the borrower may find it difficult to lease property to new tenants that may have been suited to the particular needs of a former tenant. We may be subject to "lender liability" claims, which may subject us to significant liability, should a claim of this type arise. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed "lender liability." Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or stockholders. We cannot assure prospective investors that such claims will not arise or that we will not be subject to significant liability if a claim of this type did arise. A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could impair our assets and harm our operations. We believe the risks associated with our business will be more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Because we have only recently acquired assets, we are not burdened by the losses experienced by certain of our competitors as a result of the recent economic downturn and declines in real estate values. Although we will take current economic conditions into account in acquiring our target assets, our long term success depends in part on improving economic conditions and the eventual return of a stable and dependable financing market for retail real estate. If the current challenging economic conditions persist or worsen, our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock will be adversely af fected. Loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common stock. We are dependent on the efforts of our key personnel of our senior management team. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common stock. Under their employment agreements, certain members of our senior management team will have certain rights to terminate their employment and receive severance in connection with a change in control of our company. We have entered into employment agreements with each of Messrs. Tanz, Roche and Schoebel, which provide that, upon termination of his employment (i) by the applicable officer within 12 months following the occurrence of a change in control (as defined in the employment agreement), (ii) by us without cause (as defined in the employment agreement), (iii) by the applicable officer for good reason (as defined in the employment agreement), (iv) by non-renewal of the applicable officer's employment agreement or (v) by reason of the applicable officer's death or disability (as defined in the employment agreement), such executive officers would be entitled to certain termination or severance payments made by us (which may include a lump sum payment equal to defined percentages of annual salary and prior years' average bonuses, paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the respective agreement). In addition, the vesting of all his outstanding unvested equity-based incentives and awards will accelerate. These provisions make it costly to terminate their employment and could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our company that might involve a premium paid for shares of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority or reliance on a joint venture partner's financial condition. We own certain of our investment properties through joint ventures with third parties and may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. Investments in joint ventures involve risks that are not otherwise present with properties which we own entirely. In these investments, we do not have exclusive control or sole decision-making authority over the development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of these investments. As a result, the joint venture partner might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or interests, take action contrary to our interests or otherwise impede our objectives. These investments involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture partner failing to provide capital and fulfill its - 13 - obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. The joint venture partner also might become insolvent or bankrupt, which may result in significant losses to us. Further, although we may own a controlling interest in a joint venture and may have authority over major decisions such as the sale or refinancing of investment properties, we may have fiduciary duties to the joint venture partners or the joint venture itself that may cause, or require, us to take or refrain from taking actions that we would otherwise take if we owned the investment properties outright. Uninsured losses or a loss in excess of insured limits could adversely affect our financial condition. We carry comprehensive general liability, fire, extended coverage, loss of rent insurance, and environmental liability where applicable on our properties, with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. However, with respect to those properties where the leases do not provide for abatement of rent under any circumstances, we generally do not maintain loss of rent insurance. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as losses resulting from wars, terrorism or acts of God that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from a property, while remainin g obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any loss of these types would adversely affect our financial condition. Our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor market conditions where our properties are geographically concentrated. Our performance depends on the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our properties in California, Washington and Oregon accounted for 60.9%, 25.7% and 13.3%, respectively, of our consolidated net operating income. Our revenues and cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in an area, deteriorate in California, Washington and Oregon relative to other geographic areas. Risks Related to Financing Our unsecured revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to respond to changing market conditions and our ability to pay distributions on our common stock. Our unsecured revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. For example, we are subject to a maximum consolidated leverage ratio (defined as consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated total asset value) of 55% (provided that, upon our request, the consolidated leverage ratio may be increased once to 60% for a maximum of two consecutive fiscal quarters), which could have the effect of reducing our ability to incur additional debt and consequently reduce our ability to pay distributions on our common stock. The unsecured revolving credit facility also contains limitations on our ability to pay distributions. In addition, the revolving credit facility contains customary restrictive covenants requiring u s to maintain a minimum consolidated tangible net worth, a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, a maximum consolidated unencumbered leverage ratio and a maximum consolidated unsecured indebtedness. These or other limitations may adversely affect our flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating plans and could result in us being limited in the amount of dividends we would be permitted to pay on our common stock. Certain of our debt instruments contain covenants that could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. Our mortgage financing contains customary covenants and provisions that limit our ability to pre-pay such mortgages before their scheduled maturity date or to transfer the underlying property without lender consent. In addition, because a mortgage is secured by a lien on the underlying real property, mortgage defaults subject us to the risk of losing the property through foreclosure. In addition, our Credit Facility contains customary restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. Any other unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and other - 14 - loans that we may obtain in the future may contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of net operating income to our interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. In addition, failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. Additionally, our ability to satisfy prospective lenders' insurance requirements may be adversely affected if lenders generally insist upon greater insurance coverage agains t certain risks than is available to us in the marketplace or on commercially reasonable terms. Our access to financing may be limited and thus our ability to potentially enhance our returns may be adversely affected. We intend, when appropriate, to employ prudent amounts of leverage and use debt as a means of providing additional funds for the acquisition of our target assets and the diversification of our portfolio. To the extent market conditions improve and markets stabilize over time, we expect to increase our borrowing levels. As of December 31, 2010, our outstanding mortgage indebtedness was approximately $42 million, and we may incur significant additional debt to finance future acquisition and development activities. We have a $175 million unsecured revolving Credit Facility with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and letter of credit issuer, KeyBank National Association, as syndication agent, PNC Bank, National Association and U.S. Bank National Association, as co-documentation agents, and the oth er lenders party thereto. To date, we have no outstanding borrowings under our Credit Facility The amount available to be borrowed may be increased by up to an additional $75 million to $250 million under certain conditions set forth in our Credit Facility, including the consent of the lenders for the additional commitments. Our access to private sources of financing will depend upon a number of factors, over which we have little or no control, including: · general market conditions; · the market's view of the quality of our assets; · the market's perception of our growth potential; · our eligibility to participate in and access capital from programs established by the U.S. government; · our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and · the market price of the shares of our common stock. Although we have recently seen a gradual improvement in the credit markets, any reduction in available financing may adversely affect our ability to achieve our financial objectives. Concern about the stability of the markets generally could adversely affect one or more private lenders and could cause one or more private lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing or to increase the costs of that financing. In addition, if regulatory capital requirements imposed on our private lenders change, they may be required to limit, or increase the cost of, financing they provide to us. In general, this could potentially increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity or require us to sell assets at an inopportune time or price. During times when interest rates on mortgage loans are high or financing is otherwise unavailable on a timely basis, we have and may continue to purchase certain properties for cash. Consequently, depending on market conditions at the relevant time, we may have to rely more heavily on additional equity issuances, which may be dilutive to our stockholders, or on less efficient forms of debt financing that require a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations, future business opportunities, cash distributions to our stockholders and other purposes. We cannot assure you that we will have access to such equity or debt capital on favorable terms (including, without limitation, cost and term) at the desired times, or at all, which - 15 - may cause us to curtail our asset acquisition activities and/or dispose of assets, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Interest rate fluctuations could reduce the income on our investments and increase our financing costs. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating results as such changes will affect the interest we receive on our floating rate interest bearing investments and the financing cost of our debt, as well as our interest rate swaps that we utilize for hedging purposes. There can be no guarantee that the financial condition of the counterparties with respect to our interest rate swaps will enable them to fulfill their obligations under these agreements. Changes in interest rates may also, in the case of our real estate-related debt investments, affect borrower default rates, which may result in losses for us. Financing arrangements that we may use to finance our assets may require us to provide additional collateral or pay down debt. We intend, when appropriate, to use traditional forms of financing, including secured credit facilities. In the event we utilize such financing arrangements, they would involve the risk that the market value of our assets which are secured may decline in value, in which case the lender may, in connection with a refinancing of the credit facility, require us to provide additional collateral, provide additional equity, or to repay all or a portion of the funds advanced. We may not have the funds available to repay our debt or provide additional equity at that time, which would likely result in defaults unless we are able to raise the funds from alternative sources, which we may not be able to achieve on favorable terms or at all. Providing additional collateral or equity would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. If we cannot meet these requirements, the lender could accelerate our indebtedness, increase the interest rate on advanced funds and terminate our ability to borrow funds from them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to implement our business plan. The providers of credit facilities may also require us to maintain a certain amount of cash or set aside assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize such arrangements on favorable terms, or at all. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure We depend on dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. The creditors of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to us. Substantially all of our assets are held through our operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. Our operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of our cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to us by our operating partnership. The creditors of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. Thus, our operating partnership's ability to make distributions to us and therefore our ability to make distributions to our stockholders will depend on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to creditor s and then to make distributions to our operating partnership. In addition, our participation in any distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors, are satisfied. The authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock and the ownership limitations contained in our certificate of incorporation may prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors, without stockholder approval, has the authority to issue and classify or reclassify any preferred stock and set the terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a series of shares of preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that - 16 - might involve a premium price for shares of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation contains restrictions limiting the ownership and transfer of shares of our common stock and other outstanding shares of capital stock. The relevant sections of our certificate of incorporation provide that, subject to certain exceptions, ownership of shares of our common stock by any person is limited to 9.8% by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of common stock (the common share ownership limit), and no more than 9.8% by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding capital stock (the aggregate share ownership limit). The common share ownership limit and the aggregate share ownership limit are collectively referred to herein as the "ownership limits." These provisions will rest rict the ability of persons to purchase shares in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Our board of directors has established exemptions from this ownership limit which permit certain institutional investors to hold additional shares of our common stock. Our board of directors may in the future, in its sole discretion, establish additional exemptions from this ownership limit. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax and potentially increased state and local taxes, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We intend to operate in a manner that will enable us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2010. We have not requested and do not intend to request a ruling from the IRS that we will qualify as a REIT. The U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations that have been promulgated under the Code ("Treasury Regulations") is greater in the case of a REIT that holds assets through a partnership, and judicial and administrative interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REIT qualification are limited. To qualify as a REIT, we must meet, on an ongoing basis, various tests regarding the nature of our assets a nd our income, the ownership of or outstanding shares, and the amount of our distributions. Moreover, new legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. Thus, while we believe that we have operated and intend to continue to operate so that we will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we have qualified or will continue to so qualify for any particular year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income, and distributions to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in determining our taxable income. In such a case, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay our taxes. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our net taxable income to our stockholders. In addition, unless we were eligible for certain statutory relief provisions, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. The stock transfer restrictions in our certificate of incorporation may not be effective as to all stockholders, which could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. Under Delaware law, a transfer restriction on a security of a corporation is not binding on the holder thereof unless the holder voted in favor of the restriction. The transfer restrictions are not effective against any stockholder that did not affirmatively approve the transfer restrictions or any transferee of such stockholder. Accordingly, despite certain transfer restrictions in our certificate of incorporation, a transfer of shares of our stock could result in our stock being beneficially owned by less than 100 persons and loss of our REIT qualification. We intend to monitor the beneficial owners of our stock to ensure that our stock is at all times beneficially owned by more than 100 persons, but no assurance can be given that we will be successful in this regard. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders each calendar year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. - 17 - To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we are subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% non-deductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. We intend to distribute our net income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the REIT 90% distribution requirement and to avoid the 4% non-deductible excise tax. Our taxable income may exceed our net income as determined by the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets. For example, we may be required to accrue interest income on mortgage loans or other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities before we receive any payments of interest or principal on such assets. Similarly, some of the debt securities that we acquire may have been issued with original issue discount. We will be required to report such original issue discount based on a constant yield method. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. To the extent that we generate such non-cash taxable income in a taxable year, we may incur corporate income tax and the 4% non-deductible excise tax on that income if we do not distribute such income to stockholders in that year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable or make a taxable distribution of our shares in order to satisfy the REIT 90% distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal corporate income tax and the 4% non-deductible excise tax in that year. To maintain our REIT qualification, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. In order to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis, or possibly on a long-term basis, to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from, among other things, a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be required to pay certain taxes. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes. In addition, we hold some of our assets through taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS") corporations. Any TRSs or other taxable corporations in which we own an interest will be subject to U.S. federal, state and local corporate taxes. Payment of these taxes generally would reduce our cash flow and the amount available to distribute to our stockholders. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations, which could adversely affect the value of our shares or warrants. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for certain qualified dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 15% (through 2012). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates and therefore may be subject to a 35% maximum U.S. federal income tax rate on ordinary income. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adve rsely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our shares. - 18 - We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our shares of common stock or warrants. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be changed, possibly with retroactive effect. We cannot predict if or when any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective or whether any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders or warrantholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We may acquire mezzanine loans, which are loans secured by equity interests in a partnership or limited liability company that directly or indirectly owns real property. In Revenue Procedure 2003-65, the IRS provided a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if it meets each of the requirements contained in the Revenue Procedure, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from the mezzanine loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. We may acquire mezzanine loans that do not meet all of the requirements for reliance on this safe harbor. & #160;In the event we own a mezzanine loan that does not meet the safe harbor, the IRS could challenge such loan's treatment as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset and the interest generated by such a loan as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT income tests, and if such a challenge were sustained, we could fail to qualify as a REIT. There may be uncertainties relating to the estimate of our accumulated non-REIT tax earnings and profits, which could result in our failing to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT for our taxable year ended December 31, 2010, we were required to distribute to our stockholders prior to the end of such calendar year all of our accumulated non-REIT tax earnings and profits ("E&P") incurred by us prior to such calendar year. We believe that the distributions we made in 2010 were in sufficient amounts to enable us to satisfy this requirement, as well as our minimum REIT distribution requirements in respect of out 2010 taxable income. However, the IRS could successfully assert that our pre-2010 taxable income should be increased, which would increase our E&P. Thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our E&P by the close of our first taxable year as a REIT. Although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our E&P, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures (which could result in us failing to qualify as a REIT) nor can we estimate the economic impact that any such steps would cause us to incur. We could have potential deferred tax liabilities, which could delay or impede future sales of certain of our properties. Under the Treasury Regulations, if, during the ten-year period beginning on the first day of the first taxable year for which we qualify as a REIT, which we believe to be January 1, 2010, we recognize gain on the disposition of any property that we held as of that date, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of that date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate level U.S. federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate tax rate. Depending on the timing of our investments and the amount of any appreciation of such investments prior to January 1, 2010, there can be no assurance that a disposition triggering such gain will not occur and, if applicable, these Treasury Regulations could limit, delay o r impede sale of our property acquired prior to January 1, 2010. We cannot assure you of our ability to pay distributions in the future. We intend to pay quarterly distributions and to make distributions to our stockholders in an amount such that we distribute all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments. Our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors - 19 - described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All distributions will be made, subject to Delaware law, at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, any debt covenants, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We believe that a change in any one of the following factors could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders: · the profitability of the assets acquired; · our ability to make profitable acquisitions; · margin calls or other expenses that reduce our cash flow; · defaults in our asset portfolio or decreases in the value of our portfolio; and · the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. We cannot assure you that we will achieve results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return in capital. Your ability to exercise your warrants may be limited by the ownership limits contained in the terms of the Warrant Agreement and our certificate of incorporation. Your ability to exercise your warrants may be limited by the ownership limits contained in the terms of the Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 17, 2009, as amended, between us and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company (the "Warrant Agreement"), and our certificate of incorporation. On May 24, 2010, The Bank of New York Mellon was appointed as the Company's new transfer agent, registrar and dividend disbursing agent. In particular, to assist us in qualifying as a REIT, ownership of shares of our common stock by any person is limited under the certificate of incorporation, with certain exceptions, to 9.8% by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of common stock and no more than 9.8% by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outsta nding capital stock. Moreover, the terms of the warrants limit a holder's ability to exercise warrants to ensure that such holder's Beneficial Ownership or Constructive Ownership, each as defined in our certificate of incorporation, does not exceed the restrictions contained in our certificate of incorporation limiting the ownership of shares of our common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation contains various other restrictions limiting the ownership and transfer of our common stock. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your warrants if such exercise would cause you to own shares of our common stock in excess of these ownership limits. You will not be able to exercise your warrants if an effective registration statement is not in place when you desire to do so. No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is current. Under the terms of the Warrant Agreement, we are required to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants. Additionally, we will have no obligation to settle the warrants for c ash or "net cash settle" any warrant exercise. Accordingly, if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may expire worthless. - 20 - Our warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. Outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 49,400,000 shares of our common stock are currently exercisable at an exercise price of $12.00 per share. The warrant exercise price may be lowered under certain circumstances, including, among others, in our sole discretion at any time prior to the expiration date of the warrants for a period of not less than 20 business days; provided, however, that any such reduction shall be identical in percentage terms among all of the warrants. These warrants likely will be exercised if the market price of the shares of our common stock equals or exceeds the warrant exercise price. Therefore, as long as warrants remain outstanding, there will be a drag on any increase in the price of our common stock in excess of the warrant exercise price. To the extent s uch warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. Further, if these warrants are exercised at any time in the future at a price lower than the book value per share of our common stock, existing stockholders could suffer substantial dilution of their investment, which dilution could increase in the event the warrant exercise price is lowered. Additionally, if we were to lower the exercise price in the near future, the likelihood of this dilution could be accelerated. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 