ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The nature of the business activities conducted by the Partnership subjects it to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the Partnership's business activities. Other risks are described in "Item 1. Business — Competition, Markets and Regulations" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." These risks are not the only risks facing the Partnership. The Partnership's business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Partnership or that it currently deems to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm the Partnership's business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the Partnership might not be able to pay the distributions on its common units and the market price of the Partnership's common units could decline. Risks Related to the Partnership’s Business The Partnership may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay quarterly distributions on its common units following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including reimbursement of expenses to the General Partner and its affiliates. The Partnership may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay its quarterly distribution of $0.50 per unit or any other amount. Under the terms of the First Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Pioneer Southwest Energy Partners L.P. (the "Partnership Agreement"), the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by the Partnership’s operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that the General Partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, including acquisitions of additional oil and gas assets, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to unitholders. The Partnership plans to reinvest a sufficient amount of its cash flow in acquisitions and downspaced drilling in order to maintain its production and proved reserves, and the Partnership plans to use external financing sources to increase its production and proved reserves. 14 The amount of cash the Partnership actually generates will depend upon numerous factors related to its business that may be beyond its control, including among other things: • the amount of oil, NGL and gas the Partnership produces; • the prices at which the Partnership sells its oil, NGL and gas production; • the effectiveness of its commodity price derivatives; • the level of its operating costs, including fees and reimbursement of expenses to the General Partner and its affiliates; • the Partnership’s ability to replace declining reserves; • Pioneer’s willingness to sell assets to the Partnership at a price that is attractive to the Partnership and to Pioneer; • prevailing economic conditions; • the level of competition the Partnership faces; • fuel conservation measures and alternate fuel requirements; and • government regulation and taxation. In addition, the actual amount of cash that the Partnership will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of the Partnership’s capital expenditures for acquisitions of additional oil and gas assets, recompletion opportunities in existing oil and gas wells and developing proved undeveloped properties, if any; • the Partnership’s ability to make borrowings under its credit facility to pay distributions; • sources of cash used to fund acquisitions; • debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in the Partnership’s credit facility or future financing agreements; • fluctuations in the Partnership’s working capital needs; • general and administrative expenses; • timing and collectibility of receivables; and • the amount of cash reserves, which the Partnership expects to be substantial, established by the General Partner for the proper conduct of the Partnership’s business. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of additional restrictions and factors that could affect the Partnership’s ability to make cash distributions. The price of oil, NGL and gas are highly volatile. A sustained decline in these commodity prices will cause a decline in the Partnership’s cash flow from operations, which could force it to reduce its distributions or cease paying distributions altogether. The oil, NGL and gas markets are highly volatile, and the Partnership cannot predict future oil, NGL and gas prices. Prices for oil and gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Partnership’s control, such as: • domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil, NGL and gas; • weather conditions; • overall domestic and global political and economic conditions • actions of OPEC and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; • the impact of increasing liquefied natural gas, or LNG, deliveries to the United States; • technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; • the capacity, cost and availability of oil and gas pipelines and other transportation facilities, and the proximity of these facilities to the Partnership’s wells; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. 15 In the past, prices of oil, NGL and gas have been extremely volatile, and the Partnership expects this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, the NYMEX oil price ranged from a high of $145.29 per Bbl to a low of $33.87 per Bbl, while the NYMEX Henry Hub gas price ranged from a high of $13.58 per MMBtu to a low of $5.29 per MMBtu. Significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil and gas that the Partnership can produce economically. A reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and may negatively impact the Partnership’s ability to pay distributions. The Partnership’s revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect its financial results and impede its growth. If the Partnership raises its distribution levels in response to increased cash flow during periods of higher commodity prices, the Partnership may not be able to sustain those distribution levels during subsequent periods of lower commodity prices. A sustained decline in commodity prices could force the Partnership to reduce its distributions or possibly cease paying distributions altogether. The Partnership’s assets consist primarily of working interests in identified producing wells, and the Partnership does not own undeveloped properties or leasehold acreage that it can develop to maintain its production. The Partnership only owns mineral interests and leasehold interests in identified producing wells (often referred to as wellbore assignments), and the Partnership does not own any undeveloped properties or leasehold acreage. The Partnership’s rights as to each wellbore are limited to only those rights that are necessary to produce hydrocarbons from that particular wellbore, and do not include the right to drill additional wells (other than replacement wells or downspaced wells) within the area covered by the mineral or leasehold interest to which that wellbore relates. In addition, the Partnership’s operations with respect to each wellbore are limited to the interval from the surface to the depth of the deepest producing perforation in the wellbore, plus an additional 100 feet as a vertical easement for operating purposes only. The wellbore assignments also prohibit the Partnership from extending the horizontal reach of the assigned interest. As a result, the Partnership currently has no ability to drill or participate in the drilling of additional wells (other than replacement wells or downspaced wells). These restrictions on the Partnership’s ability to extend the vertical and horizontal limits of its existing wellbores could materially adversely affect its ability to maintain and grow its production and reserves and to make cash distributions to its unitholders. Because oil and gas properties are a depleting asset and the Partnership’s assets consist primarily of working interests in producing wells, the Partnership will have to make acquisitions or otherwise mitigate production declines in order to maintain its production and reserves and sustain its distributions over time. Producing oil and gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates. Because the Partnership’s proved reserves and production decline continually over time, the Partnership will need to acquire income producing assets, or mitigate the declines through production enhancements or drilling initiatives, to sustain its level of distributions to unitholders over time. The Partnership may be unable to make such acquisitions if: • Pioneer decides not to sell any assets to the Partnership; • Pioneer decides to acquire assets in the Partnership’s area of operations instead of allowing the Partnership to acquire them; • the Partnership is unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities in its area of operations; • the Partnership is unable to agree on a purchase price for assets that are attractive to it; or • the Partnership is unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. Because the timing and amount of these acquisitions is uncertain, the Partnership expects to reserve cash each quarter to finance these acquisitions or drill downspaced locations in order to maintain its production and proved reserves, which will reduce its cash available for distribution. The Partnership may use the reserved cash to reduce indebtedness, if any, until the Partnership makes an acquisition. The Partnership will require substantial capital expenditures to replace its production and reserves, which will reduce its cash available for distribution. The Partnership could be unable to obtain needed capital or financing due to its financial condition, the covenants in its credit agreement or adverse market conditions, which could adversely affect its ability to replace its production and proved reserves. To fund its acquisitions and capital commitments, the Partnership will be required to use cash generated from its operations, borrowings or the proceeds from the issuance of additional partnership interests, or some combination 16 thereof, which could limit its ability to sustain its level of distributions. For example, the Partnership plans to use approximately 25 percent of its cash flow to acquire income producing assets and drill downspaced locations in order to maintain its production and proved reserves. To the extent its production declines faster than the Partnership anticipates or the cost to acquire or drill for additional reserves is greater than the Partnership anticipates, the Partnership will require a greater amount of capital to maintain its production and proved reserves. The use of cash generated from operations to fund acquisitions or drilling will reduce cash available for distribution to its unitholders. The Partnership’s ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings could be limited by its financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, the covenants in its credit facility or future financing agreements, adverse market conditions or other contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond the Partnership’s control. The Partnership’s failure to obtain the funds necessary for future acquisitions could materially affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Even if the Partnership is successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit its ability to pay distributions to its unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt could significantly increase the Partnership’s interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests could result in significant unitholder dilution thereby increasing the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then current distribution rate, which could reduce its distributions materially. The Partnership may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisitions the Partnership completes are subject to substantial risks that could reduce its ability to make distributions to unitholders. Even if the Partnership does make acquisitions that the Partnership believes will increase distributable cash per unit, these acquisitions could nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • the validity of the Partnership’s assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues and costs, including synergies; • a decrease in the Partnership’s liquidity by using a significant portion of its available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • a significant increase in the Partnership’s interest expense or financial leverage if the Partnership incurs additional debt to finance acquisitions; • dilution to its unitholders and a decrease in available cash per unit if the Partnership issues additional partnership securities to finance acquisitions; • the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the Partnership is not indemnified or for which its indemnity is inadequate; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the Partnership’s growing business and assets; and • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. The Partnership’s decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, the Partnership’s reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential problems. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. The Partnership’s proved reserves could be subject to drainage from offset drilling locations. Many of the Partnership’s wells directly offset potential drilling locations held by Pioneer or third parties. The owners of leasehold interests lying contiguous or adjacent to or adjoining the Partnership’s interests could take actions, such as drilling additional wells, that could adversely affect its operations. It is in the nature of petroleum reservoirs that when a new well is completed and produced, the pressure differential in the vicinity of the well causes the migration of reservoir fluids towards the new wellbore (and potentially away from existing wellbores). As a result, the drilling and production of these potential locations could cause a depletion of the Partnership’s proved reserves. The Partnership has agreed not to object to such drilling by Pioneer. The depletion of the 17 Partnership’s proved reserves from offset drilling locations could materially adversely affect its ability to maintain and grow its production and reserves and to make cash distributions to its unitholders. The amount of cash the Partnership has available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on its cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash the Partnership has available for distribution depends primarily on its cash flow, including cash from financial reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by noncash items. As a result, the Partnership may make cash distributions during periods when the Partnership records losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when the Partnership records net income. Future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the Partnership’s proved oil and gas properties which could adversely affect the Partnership’s results of operations and limit its ability to borrow and make distributions. Declines in oil and gas prices could result in the Partnership having to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if the Partnership’s estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules could require it to write down, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of its oil and gas properties for impairments. The Partnership is required to perform impairment tests on its assets whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of its assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of its assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore require a write-down. The Partnership could incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect its results of operations in the period incurred. In addition, the Partnership's borrowing capacity under its credit facility is subject to a covenant requiring that the Partnership maintain a specified ratio of the net present value of the Partnership's projected future cash flows from its oil and gas assets to total debt, with the variables on which the calculation of net present value is based (including assumed commodity prices and discount rates) being subject to adjustment by the lenders. As a result, further declines in commodity prices could reduce the Partnership's borrowing capacity under its credit facility, which in turn could adversely affect its ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders. Changes in the differential between NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil, NGL and gas and the reference or regional index price used to price the commodities the Partnership sells could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The reference or regional index prices that the Partnership uses to price its oil, NGL and gas sales sometimes trade at a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX. The difference between the benchmark price and the price the Partnership references in its sales contract is called a differential. The Partnership cannot accurately predict oil, NGL and gas differentials. Increases in the differential between the benchmark price for oil, NGL and gas and the reference or regional index price the Partnership references in its sales contract could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Partnership’s derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce its income, which could adversely affect its ability to pay distributions to its unitholders. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce the Partnership’s exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, the Partnership is a party to, and in the future the Partnership may enter into, derivative arrangements covering a significant portion of the Partnership’s oil, NGL and gas production that could result in both realized and unrealized derivative losses. The Partnership has direct commodity price exposure on the portion of its production volumes not covered by derivative contracts. These derivative arrangements are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment, and the change in fair market value of the arrangements will be reported in the Partnership’s statement of operations each quarter, which may in the future result in significant net losses. Failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the Partnership to reduced revenue and liquidity when prices decline, as occurred in late 2008 and has continued into 2009. Approximately 25 percent, 30 percent and 55 percent of the Partnership's estimated total production for 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, is not covered by derivative contracts. See "Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 18 The failure by counterparties to the Partnership's derivative contracts to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's results of operations. The Partnership has adopted a policy that contemplates protecting the prices for approximately 65 to 85 percent of expected production for a period of up to five years. In addition, as described below, the Partnership's credit facility requires it to enter into derivative contracts for a significant portion of its oil, NGL and gas production attributable to proved developed producing reserves in differing annual percentages over a rolling three-year period. See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for a description of the Partnership's derivative positions as of December 31, 2008. The use of derivative contracts involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. If any of these counterparties were to default in their obligations under the Partnership's derivative contracts, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the Partnership's future production being subject to commodity price changes. In addition, in light of the current economic outlook, it is possible that fewer counterparties will participate in derivative transactions, which could result in a greater concentration of the Partnership's exposure to any one counterparty or a larger percentage of the Partnership's future production could be subject to commodity price changes. The Partnership’s derivative transactions could be ineffective in reducing the volatility of its cash flows and in certain circumstances could actually increase the volatility of its cash flows. The Partnership’s actual future production during a period may be significantly higher or lower than the Partnership estimates at the time the Partnership enters into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than the Partnership estimates, the Partnership will have more production not covered by derivative contracts and therefore greater commodity price exposure than the Partnership intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to its derivative financial instruments, the Partnership might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of its derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from its sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of its liquidity. As a result of these factors, the Partnership’s derivative activities may not be as effective as it intends in reducing the volatility of its cash flows, and in certain circumstances could actually increase the volatility of its cash flows. The Partnership’s ability to use derivative transactions to protect it from future oil, NGL and gas price declines will be dependent upon oil, NGL and gas prices at the time the Partnership enters into future derivative transactions and its future levels of derivative activity, and as a result the Partnership’s future net cash flow may be more sensitive to commodity price changes. Approximately 75 percent, 70 percent and 45 percent of the Partnership’s estimated total production for 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, have been matched with fixed price commodity swaps or collar contracts. As the Partnership’s derivative contracts expire, more of its future production will be sold at market prices unless the Partnership enters into further derivative transactions. The Partnership’s credit facility requires it to enter into derivative arrangements for not less than 65 percent (nor more than 85 percent) of its projected oil, NGL and gas production attributable to proved developed producing reserves through December 31, 2010. Furthermore, by April 1, 2009 and April 1, 2010, the credit facility requires that the Partnership enter into derivative transactions for not less than 50 percent of the Partnership's projected oil, NGL and gas production attributable to proved developed producing reserves through December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012, respectively. The Partnership’s commodity price derivative strategy and future derivative transactions will be determined by the General Partner, which is not under any obligation to enter into derivative contracts on a specific portion of the Partnership’s production, other than to comply with the terms of the Partnership’s credit facility for so long as it may remain in place. The prices at which the Partnership enters into derivative contracts on its production in the future will be dependent upon commodity prices at the time the Partnership enters into these transactions, which may be substantially lower than current oil, NGL and gas prices. Additionally, the Partnership could be required by the terms of its credit facility to enter into derivative contracts at times and prices that are not considered strategically advantageous. Accordingly, the Partnership’s derivative contracts may not protect it from significant and sustained declines in oil, NGL and gas prices received for its future production. Conversely, the Partnership’s commodity price derivative strategy could limit its ability to realize cash flow from commodity price increases. It is also possible that a larger percentage of the Partnership’s future production will not be covered by derivative contracts as compared to the next few years, which would result in its oil and gas revenues becoming more sensitive to commodity price changes. 19 Estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. The actual quantities and net cash flows of the Partnership’s proved reserves could prove to be lower than estimated. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. The estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this Report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; • the quality and quantity of available data; • the interpretation of that data; • the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and • assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items could differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: • the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; • the production and operating costs incurred; • the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and • future commodity prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The Partnership's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: • the amount and timing of actual production; • levels of future capital spending; • increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil and gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. It requires the use of commodity prices, as well as operating and development costs, prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows could be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. In addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Partnership or the oil and gas industry in general. Therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or Standardized Measure in this Report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Partnership's proved reserves. Producing oil and gas involves numerous risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the Partnership’s financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, its ability to pay distributions to its unitholders. The operating cost of a well includes variable costs, and increases in these costs can adversely affect the economics of a well. Furthermore, the Partnership’s producing operations could be curtailed or delayed or become uneconomical as a result of other factors, including: 20 • high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; • unexpected operational events and/or conditions; • reductions in oil, NGL and gas prices; • limitations in the market for oil, NGL and gas; • adverse weather conditions; • facility or equipment malfunctions; • equipment failures or accidents; • title problems; • pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; • environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; • lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; • unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; • fires; • natural disasters; and • uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular area of the Spraberry field, the Partnership could lose all or a part of its investment in that area, or the Partnership could fail to realize the expected benefits from that area of the Spraberry field, either of which could materially and adversely affect its revenue and profitability. Additionally, the Partnership relies to a large extent on the facilities owned and operated by third parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the Partnership to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. For example, damage caused by Hurricane Ike to a third-party facility that fractionates NGLs from a portion of the Partnership's production resulted in a portion of the Partnership's production being shut-in or curtailed from early September to mid-November 2008 while repairs and maintenance to the facility were being completed. Pioneer is the operator of all of the Partnership’s properties, and the Partnership has limited ability to influence or control the operation of these properties. The Partnership does not operate any of its properties. Pioneer operates all of the Partnership Properties pursuant to operating agreements. The Partnership has limited ability to influence or control the operation of these properties or the amount of maintenance capital that the Partnership is required to fund with respect to them. The Partnership has agreed that it will not object to Pioneer's development of the leasehold acreage surrounding the Partnership’s wells, that any well operations Pioneer proposes will take precedence over any conflicting operations the Partnership proposes, and that the Partnership will allow Pioneer to use certain of the Partnership’s production facilities in connection with other wells operated by Pioneer, subject to capacity limitations. In addition, the Partnership is restricted in its ability to remove Pioneer as the operator of the wells the Partnership owns. The Partnership’s dependence on Pioneer and other working interest owners for these projects and its limited ability to influence or control the operation of these properties could materially adversely affect the realization of its targeted returns, resulting in smaller distributions to its unitholders. Virtually all of the Partnership’s wells are subject to a volumetric production payment, which could cause a decrease in the Partnership’s production and could result in a decrease in its revenue and cash available for distribution. Of the approximately 1,100 wells that the Partnership owns, all but 16 are subject to a volumetric production payment agreement, or VPP, that Pioneer entered into in April 2005, which requires the delivery of specified quantities of oil through December 2010 from proved reserves in the Spraberry field. Pioneer’s VPP represents limited-term overriding royalty interests in oil and gas reserves that: (1) entitle the purchaser to receive production volumes over a period of time from specific lease interests; (2) do not bear any future production costs and capital expenditures associated with the reserves; (3) are nonrecourse to Pioneer (i.e., the purchaser’s only recourse is to the reserves acquired); (4) transfer title of the reserves to the purchaser; and (5) allow Pioneer to retain the remaining reserves after the VPP volumetric quantities have been delivered. Pioneer has agreed that production from its 21 retained properties subject to the VPP will be utilized to meet the VPP obligation prior to utilization of production from the Partnership’s properties subject to the VPP. If any production from the interests in the properties that the Partnership owns is required to meet the VPP obligation, Pioneer has agreed that it will make a cash payment to the Partnership for the value of the Partnership’s production (computed by taking the volumes delivered to meet the VPP obligation times the price the Partnership would have received for the related volumes, plus any out-of-pocket expenses or other expenses or losses incurred in connection with the delivery of such volumes) required to meet the VPP obligation. To the extent Pioneer fails to make any cash payment associated with any of the Partnership’s volumes delivered pursuant to the VPP obligation, the decrease in the Partnership’s production would result in a decrease in its cash available for distribution. The Partnership’s actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. From time to time the Partnership provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production decline rates from existing wells. Downturns in commodity prices could make certain production uneconomical, which would also adversely impact prior forecasts of production. Due to the Partnership’s lack of asset and geographic diversification, adverse developments in the Spraberry field would reduce its ability to make distributions to its unitholders. The Partnership relies exclusively on sales of oil and gas that it produces from, and all of its assets are currently located in, a single field in Texas. All of its oil and gas properties are producing properties, and the Partnership does not own any undeveloped properties or leasehold acreage (other than acreage related to downspaced wells). In addition, the Partnership’s operations are restricted to onshore Texas and the southeast region of New Mexico. Due to its lack of diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in the oil and gas business of this geographic area would have a significantly greater impact on the Partnership’s results of operations and cash available for distribution to its unitholders than if the Partnership maintained more diverse assets and locations. A substantial amount of the Partnership’s production is purchased by two companies. If these companies reduce the amount of the Partnership’s production that they purchase, the Partnership’s revenue and cash available for distribution will decline to the extent that substitute purchasers negotiate terms that are less favorable than the terms of the current marketing agreements. A failure by purchasers of the Partnership's production to perform their obligations to the Partnership could require the Partnership to recognize a charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, purchases by Plains Marketing, L.P. and TEPPCO Crude Oil represented approximately 62 percent and 11 percent of the Partnership’s sales revenue, respectively. If these companies were to reduce the amount of the Partnership’s production that they purchase, the Partnership’s revenue and cash available for distribution will decline to the extent that substitute purchasers negotiate terms that are less favorable than the terms of the current marketing agreements. In addition, a failure by any of these companies, or any purchasers of the Partnership's production, to perform their payment obligations to the Partnership could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's results of operation. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit, and equity values have substantially declined. To the extent that purchasers of the Partnership's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there could be an increased risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the Partnership. If for any reason the Partnership were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the Partnership's production were uncollectible, the Partnership would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss and could suffer a material reduction in its liquidity and ability to make distributions. Plains Marketing, L.P. and TEPPCO Crude Oil purchase the majority of the Partnership’s oil and NGL production pursuant to existing marketing agreements with Pioneer. The Partnership is not a party to the marketing agreements with Plains Marketing, L.P. and TEPPCO Crude Oil. Pursuant to the provisions of standard industry operating agreements to which the Partnership’s properties are subject and to which the Partnership is a party, Pioneer, as operator, markets the production on behalf of all working interest owners, including the Partnership, and determines in its sole discretion the terms on which the Partnership’s production is sold. As is standard in the industry, the oil sold under Pioneer’s marketing agreements with Plains Marketing, L.P. and TEPPCO Crude Oil is sold at the West Texas Intermediate (Cushing) price, less the Midland, Texas location and transportation differentials at the time of sale. The primary term of Pioneer’s marketing agreement with Plains 22 Marketing, L.P. expires on January 1, 2011, after which time the contract will automatically be extended on a month-to-month basis until either party gives 90 days advance written notice of non-renewal. The marketing agreement between Pioneer and TEPPCO Crude Oil is currently month-to-month and may be terminated upon 30 days advance written notice by either party to the agreement. The Partnership may not be able to obtain funding, obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under its credit facility because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This could hinder or prevent the Partnership from meeting its future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding. In addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to the borrower's current debt and reduced or, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, the Partnership may be unable to obtain adequate funding under its credit facility if (i) the Partnership's lending counterparties become unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) the amount the Partnership may borrow under its credit facility is reduced as a result of lower oil, NGL or gas prices, declines in reserves, lending requirements or regulations, or for other reasons. Due to these factors, the Partnership cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and, to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, the Partnership may be unable to implement its business plans, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's production, revenues and results of operations. Declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse affect on the Partnership's results of operations. Recently, concerns over a worldwide economic downturn, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a worldwide recession. Concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices, both of which have contributed to a decline in the Partnership's common unit price and corresponding market capitalization. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad continues to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could further diminish, which could further depress the price at which the Partnership can sell its oil, NGLs and gas and ultimately decrease the Partnership's net revenue and profitability. The Partnership faces significant competition, and many of its competitors have resources in excess of the Partnership’s available resources. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring producing oil and gas assets, marketing oil and gas and securing equipment and trained personnel, and the Partnership competes with other companies that have greater resources. Many of the Partnership’s competitors are major and large independent oil and gas companies that possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than the Partnership’s. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more assets than the Partnership’s financial or personnel resources permit. The Partnership’s ability to acquire additional oil and gas assets in the future will depend on Pioneer’s willingness and ability to evaluate and select suitable assets and the Partnership’s ability to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of the Partnership’s larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and gas assets and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of assets than the Partnership’s financial or human resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and gas industry. These larger companies may have a greater ability to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. The Partnership’s inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on its business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 23 The Partnership may incur debt to enable it to pay its quarterly distributions, which could negatively affect its ability to execute its business plan and pay future distributions. The Partnership has the ability to incur debt under its credit facility to pay distributions. If the Partnership borrows to pay distributions, the Partnership would be distributing more cash than the Partnership generates from its operations on a current basis. This means that the Partnership would be using a portion of its borrowing capacity under its credit facility to pay distributions rather than to maintain or expand its operations. If the Partnership uses borrowings under its credit facility to pay distributions for an extended period of time rather than toward funding acquisition expenditures and other matters relating to its operations, the Partnership may be unable to support or grow its business. Such a curtailment of its business activities, combined with its payment of principal and interest on its future indebtedness to pay these distributions, will reduce the Partnership’s cash available for distribution on its units and will materially affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Partnership borrows to pay distributions during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, the Partnership would likely have to reduce its future distributions in order to avoid excessive leverage. The Partnership’s future debt levels could limit its flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. The level of the Partnership’s future indebtedness could have important consequences to the Partnership, including: • the Partnership’s ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • covenants contained in its existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require it to meet financial tests that may affect its flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in its business, including possible acquisition opportunities; • it will need a substantial portion of its cash flow to make principal and interest payments on its indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; and • its debt level will make it more vulnerable than its competitors with less debt to the effects of competitive pressures or a downturn in its business or the economy generally. The Partnership’s ability to service its indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, its future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond the Partnership’s control. If its operating results are not sufficient to service its current or future indebtedness, the Partnership will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing its indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital. The Partnership may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. The Partnership’s credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants that could restrict its business and financing activities and its ability to pay distributions. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the Partnership’s credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict its ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue its business activities or to pay distributions. The Partnership’s credit facility limits, and any future credit facility could limit, its ability to: • grant liens; • incur additional indebtedness; • engage in a merger, consolidation or dissolution; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • pay distributions or repurchase equity; • make investments; • sell or otherwise dispose of its assets, businesses and operations; and • materially alter the character of its business. 24 The Partnership also is required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios, such as a leverage ratio, an interest coverage ratio and a net present value of projected future cash flows from its oil and gas assets to total debt ratio. The Partnership’s ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from its operations and events or circumstances beyond its control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, the Partnership’s ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If the Partnership violates any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in its credit facility, its indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, its ability to make distributions may be inhibited, and its lenders’ commitment to make further loans to it may terminate. The Partnership might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. See "Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity — Liquidity." The Partnership’s operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which the Partnership may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in the Partnership’s wells, gathering systems and associated facilities, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems and natural disasters, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of its operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations and substantial revenue losses. The location of the Partnership’s wells, gathering systems and associated facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The Partnership is not fully insured against all risks. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, the Partnership may elect not to obtain insurance if it believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and the hurricanes in 2005 have made it more difficult for the Partnership to obtain certain types of coverage. There can be no assurance that the Partnership will be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance the Partnership would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that the insurance coverage the Partnership does obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and a delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could adversely affect the Partnership’s business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to its unitholders. The Partnership is listed as a named insured on the insurance policies that Pioneer carries with respect to its own assets. Losses by Pioneer will erode the coverage levels under the policy, and if Pioneer sustains a catastrophic loss for which the coverage under the policy is entirely exhausted, the Partnership would not have coverage for its losses occurring prior to the time that the Partnership was able to obtain additional coverage. The Partnership’s business depends in part on gathering, transportation, storage and processing facilities owned by Pioneer and others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with the Partnership’s ability to market its oil, NGL and gas production and could harm its business. The marketability of the Partnership’s oil, NGL and gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, oil, NGL and gas gathering systems and processing facilities. The amount of oil, NGL and gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline or processing facility interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage or lack of available capacity on such systems. For example, substantially all of the Partnership’s gas is processed at the Midkiff/Benedum and Sale Ranch gas processing plants. If either or both of these plants were to be shut down, the Partnership might be required to shut in production from the wells serviced by those plants. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances could last from a few days to several months. In many cases, the Partnership is provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. For example, as described in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Recent Events," during the second week of September 2008, Hurricane Ike struck the Texas gulf coast, damaging third-party downstream production handling and processing facilities. As a result, sales of portions of the Partnership's third quarter and fourth quarter 2008 NGL volumes were delayed and oil and gas production from certain of the Partnership's properties were temporarily curtailed. Any significant curtailment in gathering system, pipeline, storage or processing capacity could reduce the Partnership’s ability to market its oil, NGL and gas production and harm its business. 25 Shortages of drilling rigs, supplies, oilfield services, equipment and crews could delay the Partnership’s operations and reduce its cash available for distribution. To the extent that in the future the Partnership acquires and develops undeveloped properties, including its rights to drill downspaced wells, higher commodity prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, supplies, services, equipment and crews, and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Until recently, oil and gas companies have generally experienced increasing drilling and operating costs over the past three years. Although the Partnership has experienced decreases in these costs over the past several months, such decreases could be short-lived. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and equipment and services could restrict the Partnership’s ability to drill wells and conduct operations. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce its future revenues and cash available for distribution. Development drilling involves risks and may not result in commercially productive reserves. Drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and • costs of, or shortages or delays in the delivery of, drilling rigs and equipment. Any future drilling activities by the Partnership may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the Partnership's future results of operations and financial condition. The third parties on whom the Partnership relies for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex federal, state and other laws that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting the Partnership’s business. The operations of the third parties on whom the Partnership relies for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulation. If existing laws and regulations governing such third-party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes could affect the costs that the Partnership pays for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom the Partnership relies could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership’s business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to unitholders. See "Item 1. Business — Competition, Markets and Regulations" above for additional discussion regarding government regulation. Third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to the Partnership’s gas pipelines and processing facilities could become partially or fully unavailable to transport gas. The Partnership depends upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from pipelines and processing facilities that the Partnership utilizes. Because the Partnership does not own or operate these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation in their current manner is not within the Partnership’s control. If any of these third-party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport gas, or if the gas quality specifications for these pipelines or facilities change so as to restrict the Partnership’s ability to transport gas on these pipelines or facilities, the Partnership’s revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. The nature of the Partnership’s assets exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. The Partnership could incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to its oil and gas production activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of 26 federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including agency interpretations of the foregoing and governmental enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property could result from environmental and other impacts of the Partnership’s operations. Strict, joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause the Partnership to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of its own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If the Partnership is not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, its ability to make distributions to its unitholders could be adversely affected. See "Item 1. Business — Competition, Markets and Regulations" above for additional discussion regarding government regulation. Risks Related to an Investment in the Partnership The General Partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in the Partnership and will have conflicts of interest with the Partnership. The Partnership Agreement limits the fiduciary duties that the General Partner owes to the Partnership, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the Partnership’s detriment, and limits the circumstances under which unitholders may make a claim relating to conflicts of interest and the remedies available to unitholders in that event. Pioneer owns a 68.3 percent limited partner interest in the Partnership and Pioneer owns and controls the General Partner, which controls the Partnership. The directors and officers of the General Partner have a fiduciary duty to manage the General Partner in a manner beneficial to Pioneer. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of the General Partner are directors or officers of affiliates of the General Partner, including Pioneer. Conflicts of interest may arise between Pioneer and its affiliates, including the General Partner, on the one hand, and the Partnership on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, the directors and officers of the General Partner may favor the interests of the General Partner and the interests of its affiliates over the Partnership’s interests. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • Neither the Partnership Agreement nor any other agreement requires Pioneer to pursue a business strategy that favors the Partnership. Directors and officers of Pioneer have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interest of its stockholders, which may be contrary to the Partnership’s interests. • The General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than the Partnership, such as Pioneer, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to the Partnership. • Pioneer will compete with the Partnership and is under no obligation to offer properties to the Partnership. In addition, Pioneer may compete with the Partnership with respect to any future acquisition opportunities. • The General Partner determines the amount and timing of expenses, asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayments of indebtedness, issuances of additional partnership securities and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to unitholders. • The Partnership Agreement permits the General Partner to cause the Partnership to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to the Partnership and permits the General Partner to enter into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on the Partnership’s behalf, and provides for reimbursement to the General Partner for such amounts as it determines pursuant to the provisions of the Partnership Agreement. See Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and "Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence." 27 The Partnership relies on Pioneer to identify and evaluate prospective oil and gas assets for the Partnership’s acquisitions. Pioneer has no obligation to present the Partnership with potential acquisitions and is not restricted from competing with the Partnership for potential acquisitions. Because the Partnership does not have any officers or employees, the Partnership relies on Pioneer to identify and evaluate for the Partnership oil and gas assets for acquisition. Pioneer is not obligated to present the Partnership with potential acquisitions. The Partnership Agreement does not prohibit Pioneer from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with the Partnership. In addition, Pioneer may acquire, develop or dispose of additional oil and gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer the Partnership the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those properties. Pioneer is a large, established participant in the oil and gas industry, and has significantly greater resources and experience than the Partnership has, which factors could make it more difficult for the Partnership to compete with Pioneer. If Pioneer fails to present the Partnership with, or successfully competes against the Partnership for, potential acquisitions, the Partnership may not be able to replace or increase the Partnership’s production and proved reserves, which would adversely affect the Partnership’s cash from operations and the Partnership’s ability to make cash distributions. Cost reimbursements to Pioneer and the General Partner and their affiliates for services provided, which are determined by the General Partner, can be substantial and reduce the Partnership’s cash available for distribution to unitholders. The Partnership Agreement requires the Partnership to reimburse the General Partner and its affiliates for all actual direct and indirect expenses they incur or actual payments they make on the Partnership’s behalf and all other expenses allocable to the Partnership or otherwise incurred by the General Partner or its affiliates in connection with operating the Partnership’s business, including overhead allocated to the General Partner by its affiliates, including Pioneer. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation (including equity compensation) and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for the Partnership or on the Partnership’s behalf, and expenses allocated to the General Partner by its affiliates. The General Partner is entitled to determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to the Partnership. The Partnership is a party to agreements with Pioneer, the General Partner and certain of their affiliates, pursuant to which the Partnership makes payments to the General Partner and its affiliates. Payments for these services can be substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. See Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and "Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence" for a discussion of some of these agreements. The Partnership does not have any officers or employees and relies solely on officers of the General Partner and employees of Pioneer. Failure of such officers and employees to devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of the Partnership’s business could adversely affect the Partnership’s financial results and the Partnership’s ability to make distributions to unitholders. None of the officers of the General Partner are employees of the General Partner. The Partnership and Pioneer have entered into an administrative services agreement pursuant to which Pioneer manages the Partnership’s assets and performs other administrative services for the Partnership. Pioneer conducts businesses and activities of its own in which the Partnership has no economic interest. If these separate activities are significantly greater than the Partnership’s activities, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the officers and employees who provide services to the General Partner and Pioneer. If the officers of the General Partner and the employees of Pioneer do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of the Partnership’s business, its financial results could suffer and its ability to make distributions to unitholders could be reduced. The Partnership can issue an unlimited number of additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without the approval of unitholders, which would dilute their existing ownership interests. The Partnership Agreement does not limit the number of additional common units that the Partnership can issue at any time without the approval of the Partnership’s unitholders. In addition, the Partnership can issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by the Partnership of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects: • each unitholder’s proportionate ownership interest in the Partnership would decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit could decrease; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions could increase; 28 • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit could be diminished; and • the market price of the common units could decline. The Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner’s fiduciary duties are limited and only owed to the Partnership, not to the Partnership’s unitholders, and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by the General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. The Partnership Agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which the General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, the Partnership Agreement: • permits the General Partner to make a number of decisions in its sole discretion. This entitles the General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no fiduciary duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, the Partnership, its subsidiaries or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call rights, its rights to vote and transfer the units it owns and its registration rights and the determination of whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership or any amendment to the Partnership Agreement; • with respect to transactions not involving a conflict of interest, provides that the General Partner, when acting in its capacity as general partner and not in its sole discretion, shall not owe any fiduciary duty to the Partnership’s unitholders and shall not owe any fiduciary duty to the Partnership except for the duty to act in good faith, which for purposes of the Partnership Agreement means that a person making any determination or taking or declining to take any action subjectively believes that the decision or action made or taken (or not made or not taken) is in the Partnership’s best interests; • generally provides that affiliate transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the Conflicts Committee of the Board of Directors of the General Partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be determined in good faith. Under the Partnership Agreement, "good faith" for this purpose means that a person making any determination or taking or declining to take any action subjectively believes that the decision or action made or taken (or not made or taken) is fair and reasonable to the Partnership taking into account the totality of the relationships between the parties involved or is on terms no less favorable to the Partnership than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; • provides that in resolving a conflict of interest, the General Partner and its Conflicts Committee may consider: • the relative interests of any party to such conflict, agreement, transaction or situation and the benefits and burdens relating to such interest; • the totality of the relationships between the parties involved (including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to the Partnership); • any customary or accepted industry practices and any customary or historical dealings with a particular person; • any applicable engineering practices or generally accepted accounting practices or principles; • the relative cost of capital of the parties and the consequent rates of return to the equity holders of the parties; and • in the case of the Conflicts Committee only, such additional factors it determines in its sole discretion to be relevant, reasonable or appropriate under the circumstances; • provides that any decision or action made or taken by the General Partner or its Conflicts Committee in good faith, including those involving a conflict of interest, will be conclusive and binding on all partners and will not be a breach of the Partnership Agreement or of any duty owed to the Partnership; • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the General Partner or its Conflicts Committee acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; and 29 • provides that the General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to the Partnership, the Partnership’s limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the General Partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct, or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder will become bound by the provisions of the Partnership Agreement, including the provisions described above, and a unitholder will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect the General Partner or its directors or initially to remove the General Partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting the Partnership’s business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions. Unitholders have no right to elect the General Partner or its Board of Directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The Board of Directors of the General Partner is chosen entirely by Pioneer and not by the Partnership’s unitholders. Furthermore, even if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of the General Partner, they currently have no practical ability to remove the General Partner because Pioneer owns a sufficient number of units to prevent a removal of the General Partner. The vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3 percent of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the General Partner and, Pioneer currently owns approximately 68.4 percent of the outstanding common units. The Partnership Agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders, other than the General Partner and its affiliates, owning 20 percent or more of the Partnership’s common units, which could limit the ability of significant unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. The Partnership Agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than the General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors of the General Partner, cannot vote on any matter. The Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about the Partnership’s operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. The General Partner has a limited call right that could require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time the General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units, the General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to the Partnership, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders could be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders also could incur a tax liability upon a sale of common units. Unitholders who are not Eligible Holders may not be entitled to receive distributions on or allocations of income or loss on their common units, and their common units could become subject to redemption. In order to comply with U.S. laws with respect to the ownership of interests in oil and gas leases on United States federal lands, the Partnership Agreement allows the Partnership to adopt certain requirements regarding those investors who may own common units. As used in this Report, an Eligible Holder means a person or entity qualified to hold an interest in oil and gas leases on federal lands. As of the date hereof, Eligible Holder means: (1) a citizen of the United States; (2) a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; (3) a public body, including a municipality; or (4) an association of United States citizens, such as a partnership or limited liability company, organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, but only if such association does not have any direct or indirect foreign ownership, other than foreign ownership of stock in a parent corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. For the avoidance of doubt, onshore mineral leases on United States federal lands or any direct or indirect interest therein may be acquired and held by aliens 30 only through stock ownership, holding or control in a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. In the future, if the Partnership owns interests in oil and gas leases on United States federal lands, the General Partner may require unitholders to certify that they are an Eligible Holder. Unitholders who are not persons or entities who meet the requirements to be an Eligible Holder may run the risk of (1) if they have not delivered a required Eligible Holder Certification, having quarterly distributions on such units withheld or (2) having their units acquired by the Partnership at the lower of the purchase price of their units or the then current market price, as determined by the General Partner. The redemption price may be paid in cash or by delivery of an unsecured promissory note that shall be subordinated to the extent required by the terms of the Partnership’s other indebtedness, as determined by the General Partner. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of the Partnership’s business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. The Partnership is organized under Delaware law and will initially conduct business only in the State of Texas. Unitholders could have unlimited liability for the Partnership’s obligations if a court or government agency determined that their right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the General Partner, to approve some amendments to the Partnership Agreement or to take other actions under the Partnership Agreement constituted "control" of the Partnership’s business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the "Delaware Act"), the Partnership may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause the Partnership’s liabilities to exceed the fair value of its assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are nonrecourse to the Partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the Partnership that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the Partnership Agreement. The General Partner’s interest in the Partnership and the control of the General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. The General Partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the Partnership Agreement on the ability of Pioneer to transfer its equity interest in the General Partner to a third party. The new equity owner of the General Partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and officers of the General Partner with their own choices and to influence the decisions taken by the Board of Directors and officers of the General Partner. Affiliates of the General Partner could sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Pioneer holds an aggregate of 20,521,200 common units. The sale of these units in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units. An increase in interest rates could cause the market price of the common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in the common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities could cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly-traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for the common units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities could cause the trading price of the common units to decline. 31 Tax Risks to Common Unitholders The Partnership’s tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") were to treat the Partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, the Partnership’s cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on the Partnership being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The Partnership has not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting the Partnership. Despite the fact that the Partnership is a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although the Partnership does not believe, based upon its current operations, that it will be treated as a corporation, a change in its business (or a change in current law) could cause the Partnership to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to federal taxation as an entity. If the Partnership were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, the Partnership would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon the Partnership as a corporation, the Partnership’s cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of the Partnership as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Current law could change so as to cause the Partnership to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject the Partnership to entity-level federal taxation. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in the common units. A material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states would reduce the Partnership’s cash available for distribution. Changes in current state law could subject the Partnership to entity-level taxation by those individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, beginning in 2008, the Partnership is required to pay an annual Texas Margin tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7 percent of its gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of such a tax on the Partnership by Texas and, if applicable, by any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution. The IRS could challenge the Partnership’s proration of its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of common units, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Partnership’s unitholders. The Partnership prorates its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Partnership’s units each month based upon the ownership of the Partnership’s units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, the Partnership could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Partnership’s unitholders. The IRS could contest the federal income tax positions the Partnership takes. The Partnership has not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to its treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting it. The IRS could adopt positions that differ from the positions the Partnership takes. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions the Partnership takes, and a court could disagree agree with some or all of the Partnership’s positions. The costs of any contest with the IRS would reduce the Partnership’s cash available for distribution. 32 Unitholders could be required to pay taxes on their share of the Partnership’s income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from the Partnership. Because the Partnership’s unitholders are treated as partners to whom the Partnership allocates taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash the Partnership distributes, unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of the Partnership’s taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from the Partnership. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from the Partnership equal to their share of the Partnership’s taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells its common units, the unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and its tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder’s allocable share of the Partnership’s net taxable income decreases its tax basis in its common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units the unitholders sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if its sells such units at a price greater than its tax basis in those units, even if the price it receives is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of the Partnership’s nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells its common units, it may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash it receives from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that could result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of the Partnership’s income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of the Partnership's taxable income. The Partnership will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased, which could be challenged by the IRS. Because the Partnership cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, the Partnership has adopted depreciation, depletion and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a unitholder. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder’s sale of common units and could result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the Partnership’s capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of the Partnership for federal income tax purposes. The Partnership will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in the Partnership’s capital and profits within a twelve-month period. The Partnership’s termination would, among other things, result in the closing of the Partnership’s taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in the Partnership filing two tax returns (and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1’s) for one fiscal year. The Partnership’s termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing its taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of the Partnership’s taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of the Partnership’s taxable income or loss being includable in the unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. Under current law, the Partnership’s termination would not affect its classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, the Partnership would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, the Partnership must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if the Partnership is unable to determine that a termination occurred. 33 A unitholder could become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in some of the states in which the Partnership may make future acquisitions of oil and gas assets. In addition to federal income taxes, a unitholder could become subject to state and local taxes that are imposed by various jurisdictions in which the Partnership extends its business or acquires assets even if the unitholder does not live in any of those jurisdictions. The Partnership currently owns assets and does business only in Texas. Texas does not currently impose a personal income tax on individuals but it does impose an entity level tax (to which the Partnership is subject) on corporations and other entities. As the Partnership makes acquisitions or expands its business, the Partnership could own assets or conduct business in additional states (such as New Mexico) that impose a personal income tax, and in that case a unitholder could be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local taxes or face penalties if it fails to do so. It is the unitholder’s responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns applicable to it in its particular circumstances. 34 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 