ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our stockholders. You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating our Company, our properties and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to, among other things, satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders, which in turn could cause our stockholders to lose all or a part of their investment. Some statements in this report including statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this annual report. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We face significant competition and may be unable to lease available space at four data centers recently placed into service which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, results of operations and growth prospects. We compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of technology-related real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located, or in markets where the cost to operate a data center is less than the cost to operate our data centers. Some of our competitors have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential tenants, significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources and more ready access to capital, all of which allows them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, including Digital Realty Trust, Inc. and CoreSite Realty Corporation, as well as various privately held companies and local developers. If our competitors offer space that our tenants or potential tenants perceive to be superior to ours based on numerous factors, including available power, security considerations, location, or connectivity, or if they offer rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we are offering, we may lose tenants or potential tenants or be required to incur costs to improve our properties or reduce our rental rates. We recently placed into service four data centers—NJ1 Phase I, ACC6 Phase I, SC1 Phase I and CH1 Phase II—and we are focused in 2012 on leasing available space at these data centers. Our leasing efforts at NJ1 to date have been slower than anticipated. Our ability to lease available space at NJ1 and the other data centers recently placed into service depends on many factors. Our experience to date indicates that it is more difficult and may take more time to lease up a data center in a new market, such as NJ1, than a market in which we already have an established presence. We may be unable to lease available space at the four data centers recently placed into service at net effective rental rates equal to or above our current average net effective rental rates. If we are unable to lease available space at the four data centers we recently placed into service on a timely basis or at net effective rental rates that are favorable, it could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, results of operations and growth prospects. Any decrease in the demand for data centers, including resulting from a downturn in the technology industry, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our portfolio of properties consists entirely of wholesale data centers leased primarily by technology companies. A decline in the technology industry could lead to a decrease in the demand for space in our data centers, which would have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. We are also susceptible to adverse developments in the technology industry such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors. We also may be materially adversely affected by any downturns in the market for data centers due to, among other things, oversupply of or reduced demand for space or a slowdown in web-based commerce. Also, a lack of demand for data center space by enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Our tenants may choose to develop new data centers or expand their own existing data centers, which could result in the loss of one or more key tenants or reduce demand for our newly developed data centers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our tenants, including Yahoo!, Microsoft and Facebook, have developed or have announced plans to develop their own data center facilities. Other tenants with their own existing data centers may choose to expand their data centers in the future. In the event that any of our key tenants were to develop or expand their data centers, it could result in a loss of business to us or put pressure on our pricing. If we lose a tenant, there is no assurance that we would be able to replace that tenant at a competitive rate or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2011, our three largest tenants, Yahoo!, Microsoft and Facebook, collectively accounted for 55% of our annualized base rent, and the loss of any such tenant or any other significant tenant could have a materially adverse effect on us, including our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any of our tenants could experience a downturn in their businesses, which in turn could result in their inability or failure to make timely rental payments under their leases with us. In the event of any tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. These risks would be particularly significant if one of our three largest tenants were to default under their leases. Also, some of our largest tenants may compete with one another in various aspects of their businesses. The competitive pressures on our tenants may have a negative impact on our operations. In addition, if one or more of our significant tenants fail to renew their leases with us and we could not find new tenants to utilize this space at the same rental rates, the expiration of these leases, as well as any future lease expirations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, Yahoo! has decided not to renew one lease with us in our VA3 data center facility that expires on April 30, 2012. This space represents approximately 19% of the data center space that Yahoo! currently leases from us and approximately 3% of our annualized base rent. There is no assurance that we will be able to re-lease this space at a competitive rate or at all. Any adverse developments in the economic or regulatory environment of our four markets—Northern Virginia, suburban Chicago, Illinois, Northern New Jersey and Santa Clara, California may materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Our current portfolio of operating data center facilities is located in only four markets—Northern Virginia, Chicago, Northern New Jersey and Santa Clara, California. Consequently, we may be exposed to greater economic risks than if our portfolio was more geographically diverse. Also, we may be susceptible to adverse developments in the economic and regulatory environment in any of those markets, including, but not limited to, business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes and costs of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation. In addition, other markets in the United States could become more attractive for developers, operators and tenants of data center facilities based on favorable costs to construct or operate data center facilities in those markets. For example, some states have created tax incentives for developers and operators to locate data center facilities in their jurisdictions. Any adverse developments in the economy or real estate market in general, or any decrease in demand for data center space resulting from the Northern Virginia, Chicago, Northern New Jersey and Santa Clara, California regulatory or business environment, could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our long-term growth depends upon the successful development of our data centers, and unexpected costs or changes in permitting or environmental regulations may delay or preclude the construction of our data centers, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. For any future data center developments, we will be subject to certain risks that could result in a delay in completion of a project, including, but not limited too, risks related to financing, zoning, environmental and other 12 Table of Contents regulatory approvals, and construction costs. Any delay or denial of an applicable entitlement or permit, including zoning, land use, environmental, emissions or other related permits would impact our plans for future development adversely. Changes to any applicable regulations, including changes to air quality standards or emissions limitations, that are applicable to us could delay or preclude our ability to construct or operate our data center facilities, which would have a material adverse effect on our growth and future results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we will be subject to risks and, potentially, unanticipated costs associated with obtaining access to a sufficient amount of power from local utilities, including the need, in some cases, to develop utility substations on our properties in order to accommodate our power needs, constraints on the amount of electricity that a particular locality’s power grid is capable of providing at any given time, and risks associated with the negotiation of long-term power contracts with utility providers. We may not be able to successfully negotiate such contracts on acceptable terms or at all. Any inability to negotiate utility contracts on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms or in volumes sufficient to supply the critical load presently anticipated for each of our development properties would have a material adverse effect on our growth, future results of operations and financial condition. We generally commence development of a data center facility prior to having received any commitments from tenants to lease any space in them and any extended vacancies could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, results of operations and financial condition. We generally commence development of a data center facility prior to having received any commitments from tenants to lease any space in them—known as developing “on speculation.” This type of development involves the risk that we will be unable to attract tenants to the properties that we are developing on a timely basis or at all. Once development of a data center facility is complete, we incur a certain amount of operating expenses even if there are no tenants occupying any space. In addition, each tenant reimburses us only for its pro rata share of a facility’s operating expenses under our triple net leasing structure. Consequently, if any of our properties have significant vacancies for an extended period of time, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The loss of access to key third-party technical service providers and suppliers could materially adversely affect our current and any future development projects. Our success depends, to a significant degree, on having timely access to certain key technical personnel who are in limited supply and great demand, such as engineering firms and construction contractors capable of developing our properties, and to key suppliers of electrical and mechanical equipment that complement the design of our data center facilities. For any future development projects, we will continue to rely on these personnel and suppliers to develop wholesale data centers. Competition for such technical expertise is intense, and there are a limited number of electrical and mechanical equipment suppliers that design and produce the equipment that we require. We may not always have or retain access to the key service providers and equipment suppliers on which we rely which could materially adversely affect our current and any future development projects. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers for power and certain other services, and we are vulnerable to service failures of our third-party suppliers and to price increases by such suppliers. We rely on third parties to provide power to our data centers, and we cannot ensure that these third parties will deliver such power in adequate quantities or on a consistent basis. If the amount of power available to us is inadequate to support our customer requirements, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations to our customers. In addition, our data centers are susceptible to power shortages and planned or unplanned power outages caused by these shortages. If the duration of an outage exceeds the time that the fuel stored on-site can power our backup engine generators, we would be dependent on the regular delivery of diesel fuel to our sites. If we are not able to operate any of our data centers during an outage with our backup engine generators, our customers, reputation and business would be harmed. 13 Table of Contents In addition, we may be subject to risks and unanticipated costs associated with obtaining power from various utility companies. Utilities that serve our data centers may be dependent on, and sensitive to price increases for, a particular type of fuel, such as coal, oil or natural gas. Increases in the cost of power at any of our data centers would put those locations at a competitive disadvantage relative to data centers served by utilities that can provide less expensive power. We depend on third parties to provide Internet connectivity to the tenants in our data centers and any delays or disruptions in connectivity may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our tenants require connectivity to the fiber networks of multiple third party telecommunications carriers, and we depend upon the presence of telecommunications carriers’ fiber networks serving the locations of our data centers in order to attract and retain tenants. Any carrier may elect not to offer its services within our data centers, and any carrier that has decided to provide Internet connectivity to our data centers may not continue to do so for any period of time. If carriers were to consolidate or otherwise downsize or terminate connectivity within our data centers, it could have an adverse effect on the businesses of our tenants and, in turn, our own operating results and cash flow. Each new data center that we develop requires the construction and operation of a sophisticated redundant fiber network. The construction required to connect multiple carrier facilities to our data centers is complex and involves factors outside of our control, including regulatory requirements and the availability of construction resources. If the establishment of highly diverse Internet connectivity to our data centers does not occur, is materially delayed or is discontinued, or is subject to failure, our operating results and cash flow may be materially adversely affected. Any hardware or fiber failures on this network may result in significant loss of connectivity to our data centers, which could negatively affect our ability to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. Failure to abide by applicable service level commitments could subject us to material liability under the terms of our leases, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our leases generally include terms requiring us to meet certain service level commitments primarily in terms of electrical output to, and maintenance of environmental conditions in, the computing rooms leased by tenants. Any failure to meet these commitments, including as a result of mechanical failure, power outage, human error on our part or for other reasons, could subject us to liability under our lease terms, including loss of management fee reimbursements or rent abatement, or, in certain cases of repeated failures, give the tenant a right to terminate the lease. Any such failures also could materially adversely affect our reputation and adversely impact our ability to lease our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our leases include restrictions on the sale of our properties to third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our leases give the tenant a right of first refusal to purchase certain properties if we propose to sell those properties to a third party or prohibit us from selling certain properties to a third party that is a competitor of the tenant. The existence of such restrictions could hinder our ability to sell one or more of these properties, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant would have a material adverse impact on us, including our business, results of operations and financial condition. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant would materially adversely affect our business and the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, we 14 Table of Contents cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In either case, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. Our business, including our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders, could be materially adversely affected if any of our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, suffer a downturn in its business, or fail to renew its lease at all or renew on terms less favorable to us than its current terms. Future consolidation in the technology industry could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition by eliminating some of our potential tenants and could make us more dependent on a more limited number of tenants. Mergers or consolidations of technology companies in the future could reduce the number of our tenants and potential tenants. If our tenants merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our tenants, they may discontinue or reduce the use of our data centers in the future. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our data center infrastructure may become obsolete and we may not be able to upgrade our power and cooling systems cost-effectively or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The data center market is characterized by evolving industry standards and changing tenant demands. Our data center infrastructure may become obsolete due to the development of new systems to deliver power to or eliminate heat from the servers we house. Additionally, our data center infrastructure could become obsolete as a result of the development of new server technology that does not require the levels of critical load and heat removal that our facilities are designed to provide and could be run less expensively on a different platform. In addition, our power and cooling systems are difficult and expensive to upgrade. Accordingly, we may not be able to efficiently upgrade or change these systems to meet new demands or industry standards without incurring significant costs that we may not be able to pass on to our tenants. The obsolescence of our power and cooling systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our properties are not suitable for use other than as data centers, which could make it difficult to reposition them if we are not able to lease available space and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our data centers are designed solely to house and run computer servers and related equipment and, therefore, contain extensive electrical and mechanical systems and infrastructure. As a result, they are not suited for use by tenants as anything other than as data centers and major renovations and expenditures would be required in order for us to re-lease vacant space for more traditional uses, or for us to sell a property to a buyer for use other than as a data center. Declining real estate valuations could result in impairment charges, the determination of which involves a significant amount of judgment on our part. Any impairment charge would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We review our properties for impairment on a quarterly and annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, a sustained significant decrease in the market price of or the cash flows expected to be derived from a property. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining the presence of an indicator of impairment. If the total of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of a property, a loss is recognized for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the property. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows requires a significant amount of judgment regarding assumptions that could 15 Table of Contents differ materially from actual results in future periods, including assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements. Any impairment charge would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any losses to our properties that are not covered by insurance, or that exceed our policy coverage limits, would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, earthquake, extended coverage, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio, which includes coverage for riots, terrorism, acts of God and floods that are subject to policy specifications and insured limits. In addition, some of our policies, like those covering losses due to floods, are subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover potential losses. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. These events would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could become subject to liability for failure to comply with environmental and other laws and regulations. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations regarding the handling of regulated substances and wastes, including, in particular, regulations regarding the storage of petroleum for auxiliary or emergency power. The properties in our portfolio are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those related to: air quality and exhaust emissions; discharges of treated and storm water; and health, safety and fire (See “Business—Regulation—Environmental Matters”). If we or our tenants fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or other sanctions or private damage awards. Moreover, existing requirements could change and future requirements could require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by regulations related to climate change. If we, or other companies with which we do business, particularly utilities that provide our facilities with electricity, become subject to laws or regulations related to climate change, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be impacted adversely. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and some of the states and localities in which we operate have enacted certain climate change laws and regulations and/or have begun regulating carbon footprints and greenhouse gas emissions. Although these laws and regulations have not had any known adverse effects on our business to date, they could limit our ability to develop new facilities or result in substantial compliance costs, retrofit costs and construction costs, including capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and other new equipment. Our reputation could be negatively affected if we violate climate change laws or regulations. Hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in material losses. We use derivatives to hedge other liabilities of ours from time to time, although, as of December 31, 2011, we had no hedging transaction in place. Any hedging transactions into which we enter could expose us to certain risks, including: • losses on a hedge position reducing the cash available for distribution to stockholders and such losses exceeding the amount invested in such instruments; • counterparties to a hedging arrangement defaulting on their obligations; • paying certain fees, such as transaction or brokerage fees; and. • incurring costs if we elect to terminate a hedging agreement early. 16 Table of Contents Although the REIT rules impose certain restrictions on our ability to utilize hedges, swaps, and other types of derivatives to hedge our liabilities, we may use these hedging instruments in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. However, hedges may not be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position. Our profitability may be materially adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of such derivatives. The departure of any key personnel, including Mr. Fateh, who has developed significant relationships with many of our tenants (including with leading technology companies), could have a material adverse impact on us, including our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on the efforts of key personnel, particularly Mr. Fateh, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board. In particular, our reputation among and our relationships with our key tenants are the direct result of a significant investment of time and effort by Mr. Fateh to build our credibility in a highly specialized industry. If we lost his services, our business and investment opportunities and our relationships with existing and prospective tenants and industry personnel and our reputation among our key tenants could be diminished, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. This risk may be even more pronounced given the terms of certain of our debt instruments. See “Risks Related to Our Debt Financing—We may be unable to satisfy our debt obligations upon a change of control of us.” If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to accurately and timely report our financial results. If we fail to maintain proper overall business controls, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, including the accurate and timely reporting of our financial results. In addition, the existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our consolidated financial statements that could require a restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to, among other things, a decline in the market value of our common stock. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease our cash available for distribution, as well as the value of our properties. These events include, but are not limited to: • inability to collect rent from tenants; • vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms, including possible market pressures to offer tenants rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options; • adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties, including data centers; • reductions in the level of demand or increase in the supply for data center space; • inability to finance development on favorable terms; • fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, including data centers, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; • increases in expenses that are not paid for by or cannot be passed on to our tenants; 17 Table of Contents • changes in, and in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, and the costs of compliance thereof; and • the relative illiquidity of real estate investments, especially the specialized real estate properties that we hold and seek to acquire and develop. Illiquidity of real estate investments and the terms of certain of our leases could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio to raise cash in response to adverse changes in the performance of such properties may be limited and thus could materially adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, data centers represent an illiquid part of the overall real estate market, due to the relatively small number of potential purchasers of such data centers—including other data center operators and large corporate users—and the relatively high cost per square foot to develop data centers, which limits a potential buyer’s ability to purchase a data center property with the intention of redeveloping it for an alternative use, such as an office building, or may substantially reduce the price buyers are willing to pay for the property. As the present or former owner or operator of real property, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances that relate to the protection of the environment, a current or former owner, operator or tenant of real property may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or petroleum products on, under, from or in such property. These costs could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several. Previous owners of some or our properties—including previous owners of sites where our CH1, NJ1, SC1 and SC2 facilities are located and the undeveloped land for our ACC8 and SC2 facilities—used these properties for industrial and retail purposes. As a result, these properties may (and in the case of the NJ1 property, did) contain some level of environmental contamination (See “Business—Regulation—Environmental Matters”). In addition, many of our properties presently contain large underground fuel storage tanks for emergency power, which is critical to our operations. We likely would be liable for contamination that results from a release of fuel from any of these storage tanks. Moreover, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability or materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. As the owner of real property, we could become subject to liability for asbestos-containing building materials in the buildings on our property, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental laws require that owners or operators of buildings with asbestos-containing building materials properly manage and maintain these materials, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. In addition, these laws may also allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials. 18 Table of Contents Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other adverse conditions, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediation. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, and similar laws, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A number of additional federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with the ADA. If one of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA, we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other similar legislation, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may incur significant costs complying with other regulations, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. In addition, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Debt and Preferred Stock Financing We depend on external sources of capital to fund our growth and refinance existing indebtedness, which capital may not be available to us at all or on terms favorable or acceptable to us. The cash that we used for the development of data center facilities exceeded the cash provided by our operating activities in each of the last four years. Our operating activities are not expected to generate sufficient cash to provide the capital necessary to construct the second phases of our ACC6, NJ1 and SC1 data center facilities, to develop the land that we hold for future data center development or to refinance our existing indebtedness. In addition, as a REIT, DFT is required under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) to distribute at least 90% of its “REIT taxable income,” excluding any net capital gain, to its stockholders annually. Consequently, we rely on third-party sources of capital to fund our development projects and refinance our existing indebtedness. Our access to capital depends, in part, on: • general business conditions; • financial market conditions; • the market’s perception of our business prospects and growth potential; 19 Table of Contents • our current debt levels; • our current and expected earnings and cash flow; and • the market price of our common stock. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing at all or on terms favorable or acceptable to us. Future increases in interest rates and credit spreads would increase interest expense related to our floating rate indebtedness and affect our results of operations negatively, which could in turn reduce our access to the capital markets. If we are unable to obtain capital from third parties, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity, which may include curtailing development activity or disposing of one or more of our properties possibly on disadvantageous terms. We have significant outstanding indebtedness and preferred stock, which requires that we generate significant cash flow to satisfy the payment and other obligations under the terms of these securities, and exposes us to the risk of default under the terms of these securities. As of December 31, 2011, our total consolidated indebtedness was $714.8 million, which exceeds the total of our cash on hand at December 31, 2011 and our annual cash flows from operating activities for 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we also had outstanding, in the aggregate, $286.3 million of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock, and in January 2012, we issued an additional $65.0 million of Series B Preferred Stock. We may incur additional debt or issue additional preferred stock for various purposes, including, without limitation, to fund future acquisition and development activities and operational needs. The terms of our outstanding indebtedness and preferred stock provide for significant principal, interest and dividend payments in 2012, including: • $5.2 million of principal on the term loan secured by our ACC5 and ACC6 data center facilities; • $52.1 million of interest on our outstanding indebtedness, based on current interest rates; and • $27.0 million of preferred stock dividends. Our ability to meet these and the ongoing payment obligations of these securities depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. Our ability to generate cash flow, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that capital will be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our senior notes, our credit agreements and our outstanding preferred stock and to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service these obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets (which we may be limited in doing in light of the relatively illiquid nature of our properties), reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet these payment obligations, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity. Our outstanding indebtedness, and the limitations imposed on us by the agreements that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and the fixed charge obligations under our outstanding preferred stock, could have significant adverse consequences, including the following: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; 20 Table of Contents • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or impose refinancing terms that may be less favorable than the terms of the original indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on obligations under our outstanding indebtedness and preferred stock, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, or adversely affect our ability to meet REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code; • cause us to violate restrictive covenants in the documents that govern our indebtedness, which would entitle our lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; • cause us to default on our obligations, causing lenders or mortgagees to foreclose on properties that secure our loans and receive an assignment of our rents and leases; • force us to dispose of one or more of its properties, possibly on unfavorable terms or in violation of certain covenants to which we may be subject; and • limit our ability to make material acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and industry, thereby limiting our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully. If any one of these events was to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. The documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness restrict our ability to engage in some business activities, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness contain customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that place restrictions on DFT, the Operating Partnership and their respective subsidiaries. These covenants restrict, among other things, the ability of DFT, the Operating Partnership and their respective subsidiaries to: • incur debt and liens; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make certain dividend payments, distributions and investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into agreements limiting the Operating Partnership’s ability to make certain transfers and other payments from subsidiaries; • sell assets; and • merge or consolidate. In addition, covenants contained in the documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness require the Operating Partnership and/or its subsidiaries to meet certain financial performance tests. These restrictive operational and financial covenants will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, and limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest, including the ability to make acquisitions or take advantage of other business opportunities that may arise, any of which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects, future operating results and financial condition. Our failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our outstanding debt (which might also 21 Table of Contents cause cross-defaults with respect to our other debt obligations). For a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outstanding Indebtedness.” The documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness require that we maintain certain financial ratios and, if we fail to do so, we would be in default under the applicable debt instrument, which in turn could trigger defaults under our other debt instruments, which could result in the maturities of all of our debt obligations being accelerated and would have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, results of operations and financial condition. Each of our debt instruments requires that we maintain certain financial ratios. The credit agreement that is secured by our ACC5 and ACC6 data center facilities provides that the total indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries cannot exceed 65% of the value of the assets of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, determined based on the appraised value of stabilized data center properties, the amount of unrestricted cash and the book value of development properties and undeveloped land. Under this credit agreement, the administrative agent periodically has the right to have each of our stabilized data center properties appraised. If the total indebtedness of the Operating Partnership exceeds 65% of the applicable asset value, the indebtedness in question would have to be reduced to a level that resulted in compliance with this ratio. The credit agreement that governs our unsecured revolving credit facility also requires that we maintain financial ratios relating to the following matters: (i) unsecured debt not exceeding 60% of the value of unencumbered assets; (ii) net operating income generated from unencumbered properties divided by the amount of unsecured debt being not less than 12.5%; (iii) total indebtedness not exceeding 60% of gross asset value; (iv) fixed charge coverage ratio being not less than 1.70 to 1.00; and (v) tangible net worth being not less than $750 million plus 80% of the sum of (x) net equity offering proceeds and (y) the value of equity interests issued in connection with a contribution of assets to the Operating Partnership or its subsidiaries. In addition, the indenture that governs our senior notes requires, among other things, that the Operating Partnership and our subsidiaries that guaranty the notes maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of their unsecured debt on a consolidated basis. If we do not continue to satisfy these covenant ratios, we will be in default under the applicable debt instrument, which in turn would trigger defaults under our other debt instruments, which could result in the maturities of all of our debt obligations being accelerated. These events would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. The terms of the agreements that govern our indebtedness limit our ability to sell the data center properties that have been pledged as collateral for our indebtedness, which could reduce our liquidity. Two of our income producing data center properties—ACC5 and ACC6—serve as collateral under an existing credit agreement. This credit agreement limits our ability to sell these properties. The indenture that governs our senior notes and the credit agreement that governs our unsecured revolving credit facility limit our ability to sell or transfer assets and, under certain circumstances, the indenture requires that we use any net cash proceeds to reduce outstanding indebtedness. Consequently, our ability to raise capital through the disposition of assets is limited. Indebtedness secured by our properties exposes us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of the property that secures the indebtedness and any rents to which we would be entitled from leases on that property. The obligations under one of our credit agreements—with an outstanding principal balance at December 31, 2011 of $144.8 million—is secured by our ACC5 and ACC6 data center facilities. A default of any of the 22 Table of Contents obligations under this credit agreement could result in foreclosure actions by our lenders and the loss of the property securing the indebtedness and an assignment to the lenders of our rents and leases related to any such property. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any such property would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the underlying indebtedness. If the outstanding balance of this debt exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds from the disposition of the properties. In the future, we may assume or incur additional indebtedness secured by one or more properties that we own or in connection with property acquisitions. Disruptions in the financial markets may materially and adversely affect our ability to secure additional financing. The credit markets continue to experience significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, the concern of which has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases cease, to provide credit to businesses and has caused spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. Continued uncertainty in these markets may affect our ability to obtain debt financing at all or on terms favorable or acceptable to us. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. Our inability to secure additional financing may impede our ability to initiate new development projects. Disruptions in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, results of operations and our financial condition. We may be unable to satisfy our debt obligations upon a change of control of us. Under the documents that govern our indebtedness, if we experience a change of control, we could be required to repay the entire principal balance of our outstanding indebtedness. Under the credit agreement secured by our ACC5 and ACC6 data center facilities, if we experience a change of control, as defined in the credit agreement, the lenders have the right to accelerate the maturity of the loan. Under our senior notes indenture, if we experience a change of control, as defined in the indenture, we must offer to purchase the notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued interest. Under the credit agreement that governs our unsecured revolving credit facility, if we experience a change of control, as defined in the credit agreement, we must repay the principal amount of any outstanding loans, plus accrued interest, and the obligation of the lenders to fund any additional loans would terminate. We might not have sufficient funds to repay the amounts due under the term loans or the unsecured revolving credit facility or pay the required price for the notes following a change of control. Under the credit agreement secured by our ACC5 and ACC6 data center facilities, we are deemed to have experienced a change of control if Mr. Fateh ceases to be one of our senior management executives and a comparable, competent and experienced successor senior management executive has not been approved by the lenders within 150 days of such event. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future with holders of units of partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, or OP units, which may impede business decisions that could benefit DFT’s stockholders. Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between DFT and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the Operating Partnership or any of its partners, on the other. DFT’s directors and officers have duties to DFT and its stockholders under applicable Maryland law. At the same time, DFT, as general partner, has fiduciary duties to the Operating Partnership and to its limited partners under Maryland law. DFT’s duties as general partner to the Operating Partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the 23 Table of Contents duties of DFT’s directors and officers to DFT and its stockholders. The partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership provides that for so long as DFT is the general partner of the Operating Partnership, any conflict that cannot be resolved in a manner not adverse to either DFT’s stockholders or the limited partners will be resolved in favor of DFT’s stockholders. Additionally, the partnership agreement expressly limits DFT’s liability by providing that DFT and its officers, directors, agents and employees, will not be liable or accountable to the Operating Partnership for losses sustained, liabilities incurred or benefits not derived if DFT, or such officer, director, agent or employee acted in good faith. In addition, the Operating Partnership is required to indemnify DFT, and its officers, directors, employees, agents and designees to the extent permitted by applicable law from and against any and all claims arising from operations of the Operating Partnership, unless it is established that (1) the act or omission was committed in bad faith, was fraudulent or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (2) the indemnified party received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the indemnified person had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. The provisions of Maryland law that allow the fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to waive or restrict DFT’s fiduciary duties that would be in effect were it not for the partnership agreement. DFT is also subject to the following additional conflicts of interest with holders of OP units: DFT may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of the employment agreements with Messrs. du Pont and Fateh and their affiliates because of DFT’s dependence on them and conflicts of interest. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh entered into employment agreements with DFT, including clauses prohibiting them from competing with DFT, subject to certain exceptions, in the data center market. Neither of these agreements was negotiated on an arm’s-length basis. DFT may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, its rights under these employment agreements because of its desire to maintain its ongoing relationship with Messrs. du Pont and Fateh and their affiliates and because of conflicts of interest with them, including allowing them to devote significant time to non-data center projects outside of the Company, to engage in activities that may compete with DFT, or to engage in transactions with DFT without receiving the appropriate board approval. Tax consequences upon sale or refinancing. Sales of properties and repayment of related indebtedness will have different effects on holders of OP units than on DFT’s stockholders. The parties that contributed properties to the Operating Partnership may incur tax consequences upon the sale of these properties and on the repayment of related debt which differ from the tax consequences to DFT and its stockholders. Consequently, these holders of OP units may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any such sale or repayment of debt. Although DFT has exclusive authority as general partner under the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership to determine when to refinance or repay debt or whether, when, and on what terms to sell a property, any such decision would require the approval of DFT’s board of directors, and DFT’s ability to take such actions, to the extent that they may reduce the liabilities of the Operating Partnership, may be limited pursuant to the tax protection agreements that DFT entered into upon completion of its initial public offering. Certain of DFT’s directors and executive officers could exercise their influence in a manner inconsistent with the interests of some, or a majority, of its stockholders, including in a manner which could delay or prevent completion of a sale of a property or the repayment of indebtedness. Messrs. du Pont and Fateh have the right to hold a significant percentage of DFT’s stock. DFT’s charter generally authorizes its directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve DFT’s qualification as a REIT and to limit any person (other than a qualified institutional investor) to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 3.3% of the outstanding shares of its common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive and 3.3% of its outstanding capital stock by value. DFT’s board of directors, however, has granted, and in the future may grant, exemptions from the ownership limits described above if such exemptions do not jeopardize its status as a REIT. In addition, DFT’s charter provides that Mr. du Pont, certain of his affiliates, family members and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing, may own 24 Table of Contents up to 20.0% of the outstanding shares of DFT’s common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, and 20.0% of DFT’s outstanding capital stock by value, and that Mr. Fateh, certain of his affiliates, family members and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing, may own up to 20.0% of the outstanding shares of DFT’s common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, and 20.0% of DFT’s outstanding capital stock by value. These exemptions from the general ownership limits give Messrs. du Pont and Fateh the ability to own a combined interest in DFT’s stock equal to 40.0% of DFT’s shares outstanding. In addition, pursuant to their employment agreements, each of Messrs. du Pont and Fateh, if he holds at least 9.8% of our outstanding shares on a fully diluted basis, will have a contractual right to be nominated to the board of directors. These exemptions and contractual rights could allow Messrs. du Pont and Fateh to exercise, individually or in concert, a substantial degree of control over DFT’s affairs even if they are no longer executive officers. Messrs. Du Pont and Fateh have significant influence over our affairs. As of December 31, 2011, Messrs. du Pont and Fateh, owned an aggregate of approximately 0.3% of DFT’s common stock (including shares of unvested restricted common stock) and approximately 35.6% of the OP units (not including those units held by DFT), equal to approximately 8.5% of DFT’s common stock, on a fully diluted basis. As a result, our senior management team, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, can have influence over our affairs and could exercise such influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of DFT’s other stockholders, including by attempting to delay, defer or prevent a change in control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of DFT’s stockholders. If our senior management team exercises their redemption rights with respect to their OP units and DFT issues common stock in exchange thereof, our senior management team’s influence over our affairs would increase substantially. Mr. Fateh has outside business interests that could require time and attention and may interfere with his ability to devote time to our business and affairs. Under the terms of our employment agreement with Mr. Fateh, he has agreed to devote substantially all of his business attention and time to our affairs. However, he owns interests in non-data center real estate assets, including, among other investments, the office building where our corporate headquarters is located, and undeveloped land located in Northern Virginia. Mr. Fateh has agreed, for the terms of his employment with us, not to sell any of this land to a competitor of our Company, as determined by at least 75% of our independent directors. Any purchase by us of the undeveloped land held by Mr. Fateh would require the approval of at least 75% of our independent directors. DFT’s charter and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control transaction, even if such a change in control may be in DFT’s stockholders’ interest, and as a result may depress our stock price. DFT’s charter contains a 3.3% ownership limit. DFT’s charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes its directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to ensure DFT’s qualification as a REIT and to limit any person (other than a qualified institutional investor or an excepted holder) to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 3.3% of the outstanding shares of its common stock by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, and 3.3% of its outstanding capital stock by value. This ownership limit may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for DFT’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of its stockholders. DFT could increase the number of authorized shares of stock and issue stock without stockholder approval. DFT’s charter authorizes its board of directors, without stockholder approval, to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock or the number of authorized shares of stock of any class or series, to issue authorized but unissued shares of DFT’s common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of its common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or unclassified shares. DFT’s board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for its common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of its stockholders. For 25 Table of Contents instance, under the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock, if, following a change of control of DFT, the Series A Preferred Stock is not listed on the NYSE or quoted on NASDAQ, holders would be entitled to receive dividends at an increased rate of 11.875%. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our Company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. DFT has opted out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL by resolution of its board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL by a provision in its bylaws. However, DFT’s board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and it may, by amendment to its bylaws (which such amendment could be adopted by its board of directors in its sole discretion), opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. The provisions of DFT’s charter on removal of directors and the advance notice provisions of its bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our Company that might involve a premium price for holders of DFT’s common stock or otherwise be in their best interest. Likewise, if DFT’s board of directors were to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL or adopt a classified board of directors pursuant to Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL, or if the provision in DFT’s bylaws opting out of the control share acquisition provisions of the MGCL were rescinded, these provisions could have similar anti-takeover effects. Further, the partnership agreement provides that DFT may not engage in any merger, consolidation or other combination with or into another person, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any reclassification or any recapitalization or change in outstanding shares of our common stock, unless in connection with such transaction DFT obtains the consent of holders of at least 50% of the OP units of the Operating Partnership (not including OP units held by DFT) and/or certain other conditions are met. Certain provisions in the partnership agreement for the Operating Partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us. Provisions in the partnership agreement for the Operating Partnership may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others: • redemption rights of qualifying parties; • transfer restrictions on the OP units; 26 Table of Contents • DFT’s ability, as general partner, in some cases, to amend the partnership agreement without the consent of the limited partners; and • the right of the limited partners to consent to transfers of the general partnership interest and mergers under specified circumstances. DFT’s rights and the rights of its stockholders to take action against its directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. As permitted by the MGCL, DFT’s charter limits the liability of its directors and officers to DFT and its stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. In addition, DFT’s charter authorizes DFT to obligate our Company, and DFT’s bylaws require DFT, to indemnify its directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, DFT and its stockholders have more limited rights against its directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Accordingly, in the event that actions taken in good faith by any of our directors or officers impede the performance of our Company, stockholders’ ability to recover damages from such director or officer will be limited. Future offerings of debt or equity securities or preferred stock, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation and for the purpose of distributions, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred stock or common stock. For example, in March 2011, we sold 4.1 million shares of Series B Preferred Stock and in January 2012, we sold an additional 2.6 million shares of Series B Preferred Stock, each in underwritten public offerings. We will be able to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval, unless stockholder approval is required by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which our securities may be listed or traded. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. As data center acquisition or development opportunities arise from time to time, we may issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to raise the capital necessary to finance these acquisitions or developments or may issue common stock or preferred stock or OP units, which are redeemable for, at our option, cash or our common stock on a one-to-one basis, to acquire such properties. Such issuances could result in dilution of stockholders’ equity. Preferred stock and debt, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend or interest payments that could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering or acquisition will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT Failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock. DFT is a real estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax purposes. Requirements under the Code for qualification and taxation as a REIT are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a REIT are limited. In addition, any new laws, Treasury regulations, interpretations, or court decisions could change the federal income tax laws or the federal income tax consequences of DFT’s qualification and taxation as a REIT. As a result, no assurance can be provided that DFT will continue to qualify as a REIT or that new legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the federal income tax laws with respect to, or the federal income tax consequences of, DFT’s qualification and taxation as a REIT. If DFT were to lose its REIT status, the tax consequences could reduce its cash available for distribution to its stockholders substantially for each of the years involved because: • DFT would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing its taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • DFT could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and increased state and local taxes; and • unless DFT is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, DFT could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which it was disqualified. The additional tax liability to us for the year or years in which DFT does not qualify as a REIT would reduce our net earnings available for investment, debt service or distribution to DFT’s stockholders. Furthermore, if DFT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, non-U.S. stockholders that own 5% or more of any class of DFT’s shares, who otherwise might not be subject to federal income tax on the sale of DFT’s shares, could be subject to federal income tax with respect to any gain on a net basis similar to the taxation of a U.S. stockholder. In addition, if DFT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, DFT would not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as ordinary dividend income to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, DFT’s failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would materially adversely affect the value of DFT’s common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like DFT, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect DFT’s ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, DFT must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of its assets, the sources of its income and the diversity of its stock ownership. Also, DFT must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its “REIT taxable income,” excluding net capital gains. In addition, legislation, new Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may materially adversely affect our investors, DFT’s ability to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Failure to qualify as a domestically-controlled REIT could subject DFT’s non-U.S. stockholders to adverse federal income tax consequences. DFT will be a domestically-controlled REIT if, at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% in value of its shares of common stock is held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. stockholders. Because its shares of common stock are publicly traded, DFT cannot guarantee that it will, in fact, be a domestically-controlled REIT. If DFT fails to qualify as a domestically-controlled REIT, its non-U.S. stockholders that otherwise would not be subject to federal income tax on the gain attributable to a sale of DFT’s shares of common stock would be 28 Table of Contents subject to taxation upon such a sale if either (a) the shares of common stock were not considered to be “regularly traded” under applicable Treasury regulations on an established securities market, such as the NYSE, or (b) the shares of common stock were considered to be “regularly traded” on an established securities market and the selling non-U.S. stockholder owned, actually or constructively, more than 5% in value of the outstanding shares of common stock at any time during specified testing periods. If gain on the sale or exchange of DFT’s shares of common stock was subject to taxation for these reasons, the non-U.S. stockholder would be subject to federal income tax with respect to any gain on a net basis in a manner similar to the taxation of a taxable U.S. stockholder, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals, and corporate non-U.S. stockholders may be subject to an additional branch profits tax. If the structural components of our properties were not treated as real property for purposes of the REIT qualification requirements, DFT would fail to qualify as a REIT. A significant portion of the value of our properties is attributable to structural components related to the provision of electricity, heating ventilation and air conditioning, humidification regulation, security and fire protection, and telecommunication services. We have received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) holding, among other things, that our buildings, including the structural components, constitute real property for purposes of the REIT qualification requirements. We are entitled to rely upon that private letter ruling only to the extent that we did not misstate or omit a material fact in the ruling request we submitted to the IRS and that we operate in the future in accordance with the material facts described in that request. Moreover, the IRS, in its sole discretion, may revoke the private letter ruling. If our structural components are determined not to constitute real property for purposes of the REIT qualification requirements, including as a result of our being unable to rely upon the private letter ruling or the IRS revoking that ruling, DFT would fail to qualify as a REIT, which could have a material adverse impact on the value of DFT’s common stock. If the Operating Partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, DFT would fail to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that the Operating Partnership is organized and operated in a manner so as to be treated as a partnership, and not an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including DFT, is allocated that partner’s share of the Operating Partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge the Operating Partnership’s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, DFT would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, would cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of the Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of its cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including DFT. DFT will be subject to some taxes even though it qualifies as a REIT. Even though DFT qualifies as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, it is subject to some federal, state and local taxes on its income and property. For example, DFT pays tax on certain types of income that it does not distribute. In addition, if assessed, DFT would incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with its taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. A TRS is a corporation which is owned, directly or indirectly, by DFT and which, together with DFT, makes an election to be treated as our TRS. In addition, our TRS is subject to federal income tax as a corporation on its taxable income, if any, which consists of the revenues mainly derived from providing technical services, on a contract basis, to our tenants. The after-tax net income of our TRS is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed. 29 Table of Contents Moreover, if DFT has net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. We will have a reduced carryover tax basis on certain of our assets as a result of the formation transactions, which could reduce our depreciation deductions. All of our operating properties have a carryover tax basis that is lower than the fair market value of the property. This position could give rise to lower depreciation deductions on these assets that would have the effect of (1) increasing the distribution requirement imposed on us, which could materially adversely affect our ability to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, and (2) decreasing the extent to which our distributions are treated as tax-free “return of capital” distributions. Our tax protection agreements could limit our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of certain properties. In connection with our formation transactions and October 2007 initial public offering, we entered into tax protection agreements with a number of limited partners of the Operating Partnership, including Messrs. du Pont and Fateh and certain of our directors. The agreements provide that, if we dispose of any interest in ACC2, ACC3, VA3, VA4 or CH1 in a taxable transaction through the year 2017, we will indemnify these partners for their tax liabilities (in varying amounts, depending on the year in which the disposition occurs) attributable to the built-in gain that exists with respect to such property interest as of the time of our October 2007 initial public offering (and tax liabilities incurred as a result of the reimbursement payment) if those tax liabilities exceed a certain amount. Consequently, although it otherwise may be in our best interest to sell one of these properties, these obligations may make it prohibitive for us to do so. In addition, any such sale must be approved by at least 75% of our disinterested directors. Additionally, the agreement contains various provisions to achieve minimum liability allocations to certain limited partners and indemnifies them for their tax liabilities resulting from any gain or income recognized due to breach of those provisions by the Operating Partnership. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 