Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Financial Position We will be required to raise additional funds to finance our operations, continue the development and commercialization of our cardiovascular diagnostic tests and remain a going concern; we may not be able to do so when necessary, and/or the terms of any financings may not be advantageous to us. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash. We expect to continue to incur losses and use cash during 2014 and beyond. Our cash utilization amount depends on the progress of our development and commercialization efforts for our cardiovascular diagnostic tests, as well as the cost, timing and outcomes of regulatory submissions for our tests and the progress of our partners for the automated versions of our tests, among several other factors. We believe that our existing cash will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements into the third quarter of 2014; however, if we incur delays in commercializing our cardiovascular diagnostic tests or in achieving significant product revenue, or if we encounter other unforeseen adverse business developments, we may exhaust our capital resources prior to this time. We expect that we will need significant additional capital in the future to fund our commercialization efforts and to grow our business. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on acceptable terms when needed, we will be required to implement aggressive cost reduction strategies. These reductions would significantly impact activities related to the commercialization of the BGM Galectin-3 Test and the development of additional indications for the BGM Galectin-3 Test and other pipeline products, and would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is substantial doubt concerning our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We expect to incur further losses in the commercialization of our cardiovascular diagnostic test and the operations of our business and have been dependent on funding our operations through the issuance and sale of equity securities. These circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of this uncertainty and the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as of December 31, 2013 the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm at the beginning of the Financial Statements section in this Form 10-K includes a going concern explanatory paragraph. Management’s plans include increasing revenue through new arrangements with commercial distribution partners and the reduction of expenditures. However, no assurance can be given at this time as to whether we will be able to achieve these objectives. Our financial statements do not include any adjustment relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Our term loan facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that impose significant restrictions on our business and financing activities. If we default on our obligations, whether due to events beyond our control or otherwise, the lenders would have a right to foreclose on substantially all of our assets. A default could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. In February 2012, as amended in May 2013, we entered into a term loan facility with General Electric Capital Corporation and Comerica Bank, or the lenders. At December 31, 2103, we have an outstanding balance of $7.5 million under the term loan facility and we are required to repay the principal monthly through maturity in September 2015. As security for our obligations under the term loan facility, we granted the lenders a lien in substantially all of our assets, other than our intellectual property, for which we have provided a negative pledge 21 Table of Contents to the lenders. The term loan facility contains several affirmative and negative covenants that impose significant restrictions on our business and operations. Among others, these covenants limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness; grant liens; merge or consolidate with another entity; dispose of our business or certain assets; change our business; make certain investments or declare dividends; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; encumber our intellectual property; or repurchase stock. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could cause all amounts outstanding under the term loan facility to become due and payable immediately and could cause the lenders to foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness, including our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the term loan facility may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities. It may also prevent us from engaging in activities that could be beneficial to our business and our stockholders unless we repay the outstanding debt, which may not be desirable or possible. Due in part to our limited financial resources, we may fail to select or capitalize on the most scientifically, clinically or commercially promising or profitable indications for our product candidates, and/or we may be unable to pursue the indications that we would like to pursue. We have limited technical, managerial and financial resources to determine the indications on which we should focus the development efforts related to our product candidates. Due to our limited available financial resources, we have had to curtail development programs for our CardioSCORE test and certain additional indications for our galectin-3 test and activities that might otherwise have led to more rapid progress of our product candidates through the regulatory and development processes. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain adequate staffing levels to run our operations and/or to accomplish all of the objectives that we otherwise would seek to accomplish. The decisions to allocate our research, management and financial resources toward particular indications for our product candidates may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay or terminate certain development programs may also cause us to miss valuable opportunities. Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy We are an early stage commercial company with a history of losses resulting from our research and development and early commercialization efforts, we expect to incur losses for at least the next several years, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred substantial net losses since our inception in February 2000. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we incurred net losses of $15.8 million, $23.8 million and $17.6 million, respectively. Our accumulated deficit was approximately $152.9 million at December 31, 2013. We expect to continue to incur net losses in 2014 and beyond. Historically, we have generated limited revenue from our biomarker discovery and analysis services agreements. We are in the process of commercializing our first product and, to date, have generated a limited amount of product revenue. Our BGM Galectin-3 Test, received clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in late 2010 as an aid in assessing the prognosis of patients suffering from chronic heart failure, and is commercially available in the United States. Our BGM Galectin-3 Test is also available in Europe under a CE Mark as an aid in assessing the prognosis of acute and chronic heart failure and as an aid in identifying individuals in the general population who are risk of developing heart failure. Our BGM Galectin-3 Test is being 22 Table of Contents marketed in the United States through specialty, national, regional and hospital laboratories. We will need to generate significant product revenue to achieve profitability. Even as we increase our sales of our BGM Galectin-3 Test, launch automated versions of our galectin-3 test, and launch future pipeline products, we expect our losses to continue as a result of our increased manufacturing, sales and marketing, and ongoing research and development expenses. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development and commercialization efforts, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, and we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and then maintain profitability, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected and the market value of our common stock will decline. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize novel diagnostic tests. If we fail to develop and commercialize these products, we may be unable to execute our business plan. Historically, we have generated revenues from initiatives, collaborations and biomarker discovery and analysis services agreements with pharmaceutical companies and health care organizations. Our current business strategy, however, focuses on developing and commercializing diagnostic tests that incorporate biomarkers that we in-license and/or identify through data mining and outsourced laboratory analysis of specific patient cohorts and specimen repositories. Beginning in November 2012, we have shifted our focus from early stage biomarker discovery toward a more commercially-oriented role in which we generate and support studies that have been designed to provide evidence of clinical utility, further differentiate and support the BGM Galectin-3 Test and future products in our pipeline. We do not expect to receive future revenue from performing biomarker discovery and analysis services for third parties. The success of our business will depend on our ability to develop and commercialize diagnostic tests based on the products in our current pipeline, as well as others that we may in-license in the future. Prior to commercializing our diagnostic tests, we are required to undertake time-consuming and costly development activities, sometimes including clinical studies, and to obtain regulatory clearance or approval, for which the outcome is uncertain. We have limited experience in developing and commercializing diagnostic tests and there are considerable risks involved in these activities. The science and methods that we are employing are innovative and complex, and it is possible that our product development programs will ultimately not yield diagnostic tests for commercialization. Products that appear promising in early development may fail to be validated in subsequent studies, and even if we achieve positive results, we may still fail to obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals. Few research and development projects result in commercial products, and perceived viability in early clinical studies often is not replicated in later studies. At any point, we may abandon development of a product candidate, or we may be required to expend considerable resources obtaining additional clinical and nonclinical data, which would adversely impact the timing for generating potential revenue from those product candidates. If our development programs yield fewer commercial products than we expect, we may be unable to execute our business plan, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in the execution of our commercial strategy, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be materially adversely affected. We have implemented a commercial strategy that is intended to generate revenues through the widespread market adoption of our BGM Galectin-3 Test, automated galectin-3 testing and our future pipeline products. As part of this strategy, we have established a scalable US-based sales organization to promote our products to clinical laboratory services providers, health care providers, health care provider organizations, hospitals, clinical research organizations and pharmaceutical manufacturers. In support of this strategy, we generate and support clinical research studies that have been designed to provide evidence of the clinical utility of our products, to further differentiate our products and to otherwise support the commercial introduction of our BGM Galectin-3 23 Table of Contents Test and future products in our pipeline. We are unable to give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our commercial strategy or that we will be successful in providing evidence of clinical utility of our products, differentiating our products or otherwise supporting our products in the manner, timeframe or under the cost parameters we anticipate, if at all. Even if we execute this strategy as planned, we may not yield the increased revenues and market growth that we anticipate. Our failure to be commercially successful in implementing our new commercialization strategy would materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to successfully commercialize our BGM Galectin-3 Test in the timeframes we expect, or at all. Our first product, the BGM Galectin-3 Test, received clearance from the FDA in late 2010 and is commercially available throughout the United States as an aid in assessing the prognosis of patients suffering from chronic heart failure. In Europe, our BGM Galectin-3 Test is commercially available under a CE Mark as an aid in assessing the prognosis of patients suffering from acute and chronic heart failure and as an aid in identifying individuals in the general population who are at risk of developing heart failure. Our BGM Galectin-3 Test is being marketed in the United States by our sales and marketing organization to clinical laboratory services providers, health care providers, health care provider organizations, hospitals, clinical research organizations and pharmaceutical manufacturers. In Europe, we market our BGM Galectin-3 Test to hospitals, clinical research organizations and pharmaceutical manufacturers. We are unable to give any assurance that we will be successful in generating revenues from adoption of the BGM Galectin-3 Test. Even if we are successful in generating revenue from the sale of the BGM Galectin-3 Test, we may not generate the increased revenues and market growth that we anticipate. Our failure to generate revenue from the sale of the BGM Galectin-3 Test would materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to provide evidence of clinical utility or to differentiate our BGM Galectin-3 Test through clinical research studies in the timeframes we expect, or at all. We generate and support clinical research studies that have been designed to provide evidence of the clinical utility of our BGM Galectin-3 Test and to differentiate its performance from other diagnostic products. The results of these studies are essential to our efforts to ensure customer acceptance and clinical adoption of our BGM Galectin-3 Test. The results of these studies support the efforts of our sales and marketing organization’s efforts to promote our BGM Galectin-3 Test and to educate potential customers. We may be unable to demonstrate that our galectin-3 test provides incremental benefits over currently available heart failure diagnostic tests sufficient to ensure adoption of our test in the timeframes we expect, or at all. Furthermore, we are unable to give any assurance that we will be successful in providing sufficient evidence of clinical utility of our BGM Galectin-3 Test or differentiate from other diagnostic products in the manner, timeframe or under the cost parameters we anticipate, if at all. If we are unable to provide evidence of clinical utility and differentiate our BGM Galectin-3 Test, we may not be able to generate the increased revenues and market growth that we anticipate. Our failure to generate revenue from the sale of the BGM Galectin-3 Test would materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to provide evidence of clinical utility or to differentiate our current or future pipeline products, including our BGM Galectin-3 Test and our CardioSCORE Test. Our ability to successfully commercialize the future pipeline products that we may develop will depend on numerous factors, including whether health care providers believe that any other diagnostic tests that we successfully develop provide sufficient incremental clinical utility; whether the medical community accepts that our diagnostic products have sufficient sensitivity, specificity and predictive value to be meaningful in patient care and treatment decisions, and; whether health insurers, government health programs and other third-party payers will cover and pay for our diagnostic tests and the amount that they will reimburse. These factors may 24 Table of Contents present obstacles to commercial acceptance of our diagnostic product candidates. If these obstacles arise, we may need to devote substantial time and resources to overcome these obstacles, and we might not be successful. Failure to achieve widespread market acceptance of our diagnostic products would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to give any assurance that we will be successful in providing sufficient evidence of clinical utility of our BGM Galectin-3 Test or differentiate from other diagnostic products in the manner, timeframe or under the cost parameters we anticipate, if at all. If we are unable to provide evidence of clinical utility and differentiate our BGM Galectin-3 Test, we may not be able to generate the increased revenues and market growth that we anticipate. Our failure to generate revenue from the sale of the BGM Galectin-3 Test would materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to successfully commercialize our BGM Galectin-3 Test because its clinical indications for use do not generate broad enough customer acceptance. We believe that the measurement of the protein biomarker galectin-3 in patients with heart failure may facilitate treatment decisions that are made regarding the intensity, locale, and nature of a heart failure patient’s ongoing care. We believe that results obtained from testing with our BGM Galectin-3 Test may be used to aid in the assessment of prognosis, reduce hospital readmissions, and help identify patients who may require more intense and specialized care such as referral to a heart failure specialist, the need for advanced diagnostics and therapies, and the need for other specialized forms of monitoring. We cannot be certain that these indications for use will generate broad enough customer acceptance to yield the increased revenues and market growth that we anticipate from adoption of the BGM Galectin-3 Test. Our failure to generate sufficiently broad customer acceptance and widespread market adoption of the BGM Galectin-3 Test would materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our automated partners may be unable to develop and/or obtain regulatory clearance of galectin-3 tests that can be performed on their automated platforms. We have entered into worldwide license, development and commercialization agreements with Abbott Laboratories, or Abbott, bioMérieux SA, or bioMérieux, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc., or Siemens, and Alere, Inc., or Alere. To date, only bioMérieux and Abbott have launched galectin-3 tests developed for their automated platforms in Europe, under CE Mark, and only Fujirebio Diagnostics, Incorporated, or Fujirebio, on behalf of Abbott, has made a 510(k) submission to the FDA. The submission made in July 2012 by Fujirebio on behalf of Abbott was subsequently withdrawn on February, 25, 2013 after receiving the FDA’s response. Fujirebio, on behalf of Abbott, filed a new 510(k) submission with the FDA in February 2014. There are a variety of risks and uncertainties that may cause delays in, or prevent our automated partners from, successfully developing or obtaining CE Mark or regulatory clearance from the FDA for automated versions of our galectin-3 test in the timeframes we expect, or at all. Delays may result from unanticipated problems in product development, an inability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval on a timely basis. Any material delays in our partners’ receipt of regulatory clearance or approval for the automated versions of our galectin-3 test, or their failure to obtain such clearances or approvals at all, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our automated partners may be unable or decide not to commercialize automated galectin-3 tests. We have entered into worldwide license, development and commercialization agreements with Abbott Laboratories, or Abbott, bioMérieux SA, or bioMérieux, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc., or Siemens, and Alere, Inc., or Alere. To date, only bioMérieux and Abbott have launched galectin-3 tests developed for their automated platforms in Europe, under CE Mark. Since launching in 2013, revenues from the sale of automated galectin-3 tests developed for these platforms have, thus far, been limited. We intend to leverage the commercial capabilities of our automated partners to promote the utility of our tests to clinicians, laboratory decision makers, 25 Table of Contents payers, patients and other stakeholders. However, even if we are able to implement this strategy, we will be largely dependent on these third parties for the commercial success of our products. They may not deploy the resources we would like them to, and our revenue would then suffer. In addition, we could become embroiled in disputes with these parties regarding the terms of any agreements, their performance or intellectual property rights. Any dispute could disrupt the sales of our products and adversely affect our reputation and revenue. Failure of our strategy to leverage the expertise, marketing resources and installed base of our automated partners would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. The royalty provisions in the agreements with our partners for the automated versions of our galectin-3 test are subject to renegotiation and following renegotiation, the royalties payable to us may not be favorable to us. The agreements we entered into with our partners who are developing and commercializing the automated versions of our galectin-3 test contain provisions that, under certain circumstances, entitle our partners to reduce the royalty amounts payable to us on the sales of their tests in amounts that are subject to negotiation by us and our respective partners. In some cases, our partners’ rights to reduce the royalty amounts are triggered by the CMS payment rate being below certain agreed-upon thresholds and in other cases, our partners’ rights to reduce the royalty amounts payable to us are triggered by the average selling prices for the tests in certain regions being below certain agreed-upon price thresholds. Effective January 1, 2014 the payment rate at which our BGM Galectin-3 Test is reimbursed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, was increased to $30.01 from $17.80 per test. Even with the increase, the CMS payment rate for the 2014 calendar year is still currently below the agreed-upon CMS payment rate thresholds in the agreements with our automated partners. Accordingly, the current royalty amounts payable to us under these agreements are subject to reduction by our partners, in amounts to be negotiated by us and our respective partners. There can be no assurance that in any renegotiation of these royalty provisions we will be successful in negotiating new rates that will be favorable to us. If the marketplace does not accept our BGM Galectin-3 Test or other diagnostic products we might develop, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain and grow our business. Although we believe that our BGM Galectin-3 Test and our future pipeline products represent promising commercial opportunities, our products may never gain significant acceptance in the marketplace and therefore never generate substantial revenue or profits for us. As is the case with all novel biomarkers, we must establish markets for our diagnostic tests and build those markets through physician education and awareness programs. Publication in peer reviewed journals of results from studies using our products will be an important consideration in the adoption by physicians of our products. The process of publication in leading medical journals is subject to a peer review process. Peer reviewers may not consider the results of studies of our BGM Galectin-3 Test and our future pipeline products sufficiently novel or worthy of publication. Failure to have our studies published in peer reviewed journals may adversely affect adoption of our products. Health insurers and other third-party payers may decide not to reimburse our diagnostic products or may provide inadequate reimbursement, which could jeopardize our commercial prospects. In the United States, the regulatory process that allows diagnostic tests to be marketed is independent of any coverage determinations made by third-party payers. For new diagnostic tests, private and government payers decide whether to cover the test, the reimbursement amount for a covered test and the specific conditions for reimbursement. Physicians may order diagnostic tests that are not reimbursed by third-party payers, but coverage determinations and reimbursement levels and conditions are critical to the commercial success of a diagnostic product. Each third-party payer makes its own decision about which tests it will cover and how much it will pay, although many payers will follow the lead of Medicare. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of each of our 26 Table of Contents products to each payer separately, with no assurance that approval will be obtained. If third-party payers decide not to cover our diagnostic tests or if they offer inadequate payment amounts, our ability to generate revenue from our diagnostic tests could be limited. Even if one or more third-party payers decide to reimburse for our tests, a third-party payer may stop or lower payment at any time, which could reduce revenue. We cannot predict whether third-party payers will cover our tests or offer adequate reimbursement. We also cannot predict the timing of such decisions. In addition, physicians or patients may decide not to order our tests if third-party payments are inadequate, especially if ordering the test could result in financial liability for the patient. In the United States, the American Medical Association assigns specific CPT codes, which are a medical nomenclature used to report medical procedures and services under public and private health insurance plans. Once the CPT code is established, the CMS establishes reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules for Medicare, and private payers establish rates and coverage rules independently. Effective January 1, 2014 the payment rate at which our BGM Galectin-3 Test is reimbursed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, was increased to $30.01 from $17.80 per test. The 2014 national limitation amount applies across the U.S. except in Ohio and West Virginia where rates of $23.99 and $26.40, respectively, will apply. In addition, the 2014 national limitation amount is subject to a 2% sequestration applicable to Medicare services. Additionally, any or all of our diagnostic tests developed in the future may not be approved for reimbursement or may be approved at a level that limits our commercial success. In addition, payment for diagnostic tests furnished to Medicare beneficiaries is made based on a fee schedule set by CMS in most instances. In recent years, payments under these fee schedules have decreased and may decrease more, which could jeopardize our commercial prospects. Reimbursement decisions in the European Union and in other jurisdictions outside of the United States vary by country and region and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining adequate reimbursement. We expect to face intense competition, often from companies with greater resources and experience than us. The clinical diagnostics industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. The industry continues to expand and evolve as an increasing number of competitors and potential competitors enter the market. Many of these competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, managerial and research and development resources and experience than we do. Some of these competitors and potential competitors have more experience than we do in the development of diagnostic products, including validation procedures and regulatory matters. In addition, we expect that our diagnostic products, if successfully developed, will compete with product offerings from large and well-established companies that have greater marketing and sales experience and capabilities than we do. We are aware of other diagnostic tests under development, which, if successfully developed and commercialized, would compete with our products. Our competitors, some of whom we collaborate with and will rely on to commercialize our products, may include established diagnostics companies, such as Abbott Diagnostics, Beckman Coulter, bioMérieux, Roche Diagnostics, General Electric, Alere, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Mitsubishi, Philips and Siemens. We may also compete with national commercial laboratories with extensive service networks for diagnostic tests, such as LabCorp and Quest Diagnostics. Specialized cardiovascular CLIA laboratories such as Atherotech, Berkeley Heart Lab (now part of Quest Diagnostics), Bioreference Lab (Gene Dx), Boston Heart Diagnostics (formerly Boston Heart Lab), Cleveland HeartLab, Health Diagnostic Laboratory (HDL), Liposcience, Aviir and Cardio DX have expanded their presence and menu in the cardiovascular market and some have developed their own tests or panels. Companies that may compete with us in the cardiovascular diagnostics space, include Athena Diagnostics, Atherotech, Berkeley Heart Lab, HDL, Bioreference Lab (Gene Dx), Dako, diaDexus, Myriad Genetics, Singulex and Critical Diagnostics. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may be unable to grow and sustain our revenue. 27 Table of Contents If our automated partners fail to perform or prioritize their collaborations or terminate their agreements with us, our ability to substantially increase customer acceptance and clinical adoption of our galectin-3 test will be undermined. Although the microplate version of the BGM Galectin-3 Test is the primary, current focus of our commercialization strategy, we have partnered with four leading diagnostic instrument manufacturers to develop automated versions of our galectin-3 test, which we expect will result in broader customer acceptance and clinical adoption of our galectin-3 test. We believe that through these four partners we will have broad access to major segments of the diagnostics market, including hospital laboratories, private laboratories, reference laboratories and physician office laboratories, due to the widespread coverage of our partners’ installed bases. Under the agreements, our partners are responsible for developing and commercializing the tests. Accordingly, we are dependent upon our automated partners to prioritize the development of their respective automated versions and the regulatory clearance of their automated versions. Our partners may experience difficulties and delays in other segments of their businesses that may negatively impact their ability to prioritize and commercialize the automated versions of our test. Our partners’ delays, failures or unwillingness to prioritize or devote adequate resources to develop and obtain regulatory clearance for the automated versions of our galectin-3 test would result in a substantially smaller market opportunity for our galectin-3 testing business and would adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are dependent on third parties for the patient samples that are essential to the development and validation of our diagnostic tests. To pursue the development and validation of our diagnostic tests, we need access, over time, to thousands of patient samples, including blood, blood plasma and serum, urine and other fluids. We do not have direct access to a supply of patient samples. As a result, we have made arrangements with third parties, such as academic medical centers, government programs and payers such as Humana that have given us access to a significant number of patient samples for the development and validation of our diagnostic tests. Most of the institutions and physicians from which we obtain biological specimens that we use in our research and validation work are “Covered Entities” under HIPAA. Under this law, these parties may have to obtain proper authorization from their patients, de-identify samples or take some other step to permit the subsequent use of those samples and associated clinical information. We are not presently a Covered Entity or a Business Associate of a Covered Entity subject to HIPAA; however, we may become a Covered Entity or a Business Associate of a Covered Entity in the future. We may lose access to patient samples provided by such third parties, or have that access limited, because the third parties decrease the number of patient samples they provide, due to changes in privacy laws governing the use and disclosure of medical information or due to changes in the laws restricting our ability to obtain patient samples and associated information. In certain instances, we owe the party providing the samples for our research programs payments which may be related to the sales of products derived from those research programs. In addition, we may be forced to actively pursue patient samples from other sources for the diagnostic testing indications we pursue, which could be expensive and time consuming. If we fail to secure and maintain an adequate supply of patient samples, or if our existing supply arrangements are terminated or result in access to fewer samples than expected, our ability to pursue our development efforts may be slowed or halted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if we engage in activities that make us a covered entity for HIPAA purposes, such as electronic billing of third party payers, we will have to implement a comprehensive HIPAA compliance program. HIPAA compliance is a costly and time consuming process. Failure to comply would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers for some of our laboratory instruments and supplies and we will rely on third-party suppliers for the commercialization of our products. If any of these supply arrangements are interrupted or terminated, we may not be able to find adequate replacements on a timely basis or at all. We rely on Abbott, Alere, bioMérieux, Siemens and other vendors to supply us with laboratory immunochemistry instruments and reagents for the development and commercialization of our diagnostic tests. If we were to lose any of these suppliers or if our suppliers were to become unwilling or unable to provide these 28 Table of Contents materials in required quantities or on our required timelines, we would be required to identify new suppliers with similar instrumentation, reagents and software capable of supporting our development efforts, or possibly modify our development processes and procedures. If supplies required for our diagnostic tests are interrupted or terminated, we may need to repeat some or all of our development studies for such products, and we may need to seek a new or amended FDA clearance for such products. We may not be able to identify or contract with acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are able to identify other suppliers, there is no guarantee that we would be able to transfer our technologies to new instruments and equipment or substitute reagents or other materials with comparable results or on a timely basis. We may also become involved in disputes with our third-party suppliers or we may become party to disputes between these suppliers and other parties, which could be expensive and time consuming. Delays or difficulties experienced with these third-party suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related To Regulatory Approval and Other Government Regulations Although we have received FDA clearance for our BGM Galectin-3 Test for use as an aid in assessing the prognosis of patients diagnosed with chronic heart failure, we may not obtain regulatory clearance for the additional indications we are seeking when expected, if at all. In the United States, we may seek FDA clearance or approval for our products prior to their launch for clinical use, whether offered as a diagnostic kit or laboratory service. The FDA process can be lengthy and unpredictable. For example, for our first product, the BGM Galectin-3 Test for heart failure, we initially submitted a 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA in March 2009. Upon review of our 510(k) application, the FDA determined that our device was not substantially equivalent to the legally marketed device to which we claimed substantial equivalence and therefore denied clearance. The FDA indicated that additional clinical and other data were required in support of our filing, and we submitted a new 510(k) application in December 2009 with additional data. In February 2010, we received a letter from the FDA regarding our 510(k) application that requested additional clinical and statistical information to support our application and, after further contact with the FDA, we submitted our formal response to the FDA letter in August 2010. We finally received 510(k) clearance from the FDA in November 2010 for our BGM Galectin-3 Test as an aid in assessing the prognosis of patients diagnosed with chronic heart failure. In addition, even after having received clearance for the initial indication of the test, we have had difficulty obtaining clearance for a second indication to identify individuals who do not currently have, but are at increased risk for developing, heart failure. In May 2012, we submitted a 510(k) to the FDA for the second indication of the BGM Galectin-3 Test. In July 2012, we received a letter from the FDA regarding our 510(k) that requested additional information, including information regarding our clinical validation study, the Framingham Heart Study, and additional analytical study data. We submitted our response to the FDA in November 2012, but based on our dialogue with the FDA, the nature of the additional information requested and the time required to address the FDA’s questions regarding various matters including the age of the blood samples used to support our 510(k), we allowed the 510(k) to expire on the January 23, 2013 deadline for submitting our response to the FDA. We are currently evaluating our options for submitting 510(k) applications for new indications for our galectin-3 test. There can be no assurance as to when we may be in a position to submit new 510(k) applications for other indications for our galectin-3 test to the FDA, if at all. Although we have received FDA clearance for the microplate version of our BGM Galectin-3 Test for heart failure, we may not obtain regulatory clearance for automated versions of this test when expected, if at all. Commercial introduction of the automated versions of our galectin-3 test will require FDA clearance or approval. For example, Fujirebio, on behalf of our partner Abbott, is our first partner to file for 510(k) regulatory clearance of an automated version of the test in the U.S. Fujirebio is developing the test for use on Abbott’s ARCHITECT® immunochemistry instrument platform. Fujirebio submitted its 510(k) to the FDA in July 2012 and received a letter from the FDA in July 2012 requesting additional information on various matters, including the geographic composition of the patient cohort that provided the blood samples used to support the 510(k). Due to the nature 29 Table of Contents of the additional information requested and the time required to address the FDA’s questions, Fujirebio withdrew the 510(k) immediately prior to the FDA-designated February 25, 2013 deadline. Fujirebio submitted its new 510(k) to the FDA in February 2014. There can be no assurance that the FDA will not raise additional questions based on Fujirebio’s new 510(k) submission. Changes in regulatory review procedures, approval requirements or enactment of additional regulatory approval requirements may delay or prevent us from marketing our proposed products. To market our products in Europe, we must obtain a CE Mark and may, in some cases, need marketing approval from the European Medicines Agency. In October 2009, we obtained a CE Mark in Europe for our first product, the BGM Galectin-3 Test for heart failure. In December 2012, we obtained a CE Mark in Europe for our second product, the CardioSCORE test. In addition, we have partnered with four leading diagnostic instrument manufacturers which are developing automated instrument versions of our galectin-3 test. In January 2013, bioMérieux obtained a CE Mark in Europe for an automated version of our galectin-3 test and is executing a phased launch of the test in Europe and in certain other territories that recognize the CE Mark. In April 2013, Abbott obtained a CE mark for its automated version of our galectin-3 test and has since initiated its commercial launch in Europe. To date, we have found the CE Mark process to be a productive means of executing our commercialization strategy in Europe and in other countries that recognize the CE Mark. If, however, the CE Mark process becomes more onerous, costly or time-consuming, we will need to re-evaluate our ex-U.S. commercialization strategy and invest more of our limited resources before even entering the market with our products. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market medical devices, including in vitro diagnostic test kits, from the FDA and similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States can be costly and time-consuming. In pursuing our strategy of commercializing our products worldwide, we face various regulatory schemes and requirements. Each regulatory agency may impose its own requirements and may refuse to grant approval or may require additional data before granting marketing approval even if marketing approval has been granted by other agencies. For example, in seeking clearance from the FDA for our galectin-3 test, we relied on samples from previously concluded studies sponsored by other parties to determine the clinical utility of our galectin-3 test, and we may do so for our other product candidates. While the FDA accepted such data in support of our galectin-3 test, and we believe it has accepted such data in other cases, the FDA may require us to conduct our own prospective studies to support future product clearances or approvals, which would make the development and validation of our product candidates more costly and time-consuming. There can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all. Our CardioSCORE test has not been cleared by the FDA for sale in the United States. We do not currently receive significant revenue from sales of our cardiovascular diagnostic tests, though we anticipate that a substantial portion of any future product revenue will be generated from sales of our cardiovascular diagnostic tests. We are actively marketing and selling our first product, the BGM Galectin-3 Test for heart failure, and, to date, we have recognized only a modest amount of revenue from galectin-3 test sales. In December 2011, we submitted a 510(k) to the FDA in order to obtain regulatory clearance to market the CardioSCORE test in the United States as an aid in the assessment of near-term risk for significant cardiovascular events, such as heart attack and stroke. In response to this submission, the FDA requested that we engage an independent committee of physicians to conduct a medical review and adjudication of clinical endpoints reported in the submission. Due to the time involved in responding to this request, we withdrew the 510(k) on August 8, 2012. Our medical review also included the assessment of sample stability and the evaluation of other technical issues raised by the FDA. We are currently analyzing the results of the medical review. When completed, the results obtained from our analysis of data collected from the medical review will guide our go-forward regulatory, commercial and investment strategy for the CardioSCORE test in the United 30 Table of Contents States. If these results enable us to file a new 510(k) for the same or a modified intended use, the FDA may have substantive comments on our new 510(k) and require that we submit further additional information and data prior to clearing our 510(k). The FDA may not clear our 510(k) in a timely manner, or at all, or may determine that our device is not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device. If the FDA denies our request for 510(k) clearance, we may be required to seek and obtain premarket approval, or PMA. The PMA process is more complex, costly and time-consuming than the 510(k) process. In addition, the FDA may clear our CardioSCORE test for a narrower indication than we are seeking, in which case the market for our test could be significantly reduced. The occurrence of any of these events would adversely affect our commercial opportunity and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our BGM Galectin-3 Test for heart failure and any future products cleared by the FDA will be subject to ongoing regulation by the FDA. Failure to comply with such regulation could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: • compliance with FDA’s quality system regulation, or QSR; • labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on marketing; and • medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • warning letters; • fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusal to grant 510(k) clearance or PMAs of new products; • withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or PMAs that are already granted; and • criminal prosecution. Being subject to any of these sanctions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to regulations under additional federal and state laws. If we develop diagnostic tests suitable for commercialization, and after receiving all necessary regulatory clearances and approvals, we will be subject to national, regional and local regulations. For example, in the United States, the regulations which we may be subject to include: • the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and its related rules, regulations, guidance documents and other interpretations relating to the manufacture and marketing of medical products; • the federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-kickback Law, and state anti-kickback prohibitions; • the federal physician self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, and the state equivalents; • HIPAA; • the various state laws governing patient privacy; and • the federal civil and criminal False Claims Act. 31 Table of Contents The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action brought against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we prevail, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, we may be subject to any applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines. We could also be required to refund any improperly received payments, and we could be required to curtail or cease our operations. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we or our third-party manufacturer fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulation, the development and manufacture of our products could be delayed or interrupted and our products may be subject to product recalls. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA’s QSR and other regulations which cover, among other things, the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA monitors compliance with QSR through periodic inspections. If the FDA determines that we or our contractors are not in compliance with applicable regulatory standards, we could be prevented or forced to delay the development or manufacture of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any failure to maintain QSR compliance could force us to cease the development or manufacture of our products and subject us to other enforcement sanctions, including withdrawal of our products from the U.S. or foreign markets, and delay or interrupt the development or manufacture of additional products. Health care reform measures could hinder or prevent our product candidates’ commercial success. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing health care reform. Any government-adopted reform measures could adversely impact the pricing of health care products, including our diagnostic products, and services in the U.S. or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third-party payers. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payers of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices we believe are fair for any diagnostic products we may develop and commercialize. Changes in health care policy, such as the creation of broad limits for diagnostic products, could substantially interrupt the sale of future diagnostic tests, increase costs, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to health care availability, methods of delivery or payment for diagnostic products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenue, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging due to several reasons, including policies advanced by the U.S. government, new health care legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. Specifically, in both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell any diagnostic products we may develop and commercialize profitably. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our diagnostic products, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. For example, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. health care system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the PPACA, 32 Table of Contents which may have far reaching consequences for life science companies like us. As a result of this legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for health care in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payers and government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, the creation of a government-sponsored health care insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. Restructuring the coverage of medical care in the United States could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices or our product candidates. If reimbursement for our approved product candidates, if any, is substantially less that we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, certain members of Congress remain fixated on the repeal of some or all of PPACA, adding further uncertainty to the law’s future impact on us. Further federal and state proposals and health care reforms could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the PPACA, by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If the combination of patents, trade secrets and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect our intellectual property proves inadequate, our ability to successfully commercialize our proposed products will be harmed and we may never be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods, discoveries and diagnostic tests that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can seek to prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. We rely on both patents and trade secrets to protect the proprietary aspects of our methods and discoveries. As of February 28, 2014, we have 5 issued U.S. patents and 13 pending patent applications filed either with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or under the PCT and foreign counterparts of certain of these patent applications. A subset of the intellectual property that we own or license relates to our galectin-3 test. This intellectual property includes U.S. Patent Nos. 7,888,137 and 8,084,276, exclusively licensed from ACS Biomarker B.V. and nine corresponding patent applications pending in the United States and abroad, as well as issued patents in Europe, Australia, China, Hong Kong and Japan. U.S. Patent No. 7,888,137 is scheduled to expire in November 2026 and U.S. Patent No. 8,084,276 is scheduled to expire in September 2024. We own a U.S. and corresponding foreign applications relating to a specific method and kit for detecting galectin-3. Any patent issuing from this U.S. application could expire as early as 2029. In addition, we own seven U.S. patent applications filed either with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or under the PCT, and foreign counterparts of these patent applications related to methods for clinical evaluation of subjects and therapies based on galectin-3 measurements. A subset of the intellectual property that we own relates to our CardioSCORE test. This intellectual property includes U.S. Patent Application No. 12/946,470 and three corresponding patent applications abroad, and U.S. Patent Application No. 13/765,366 and one corresponding patent application filed under the PCT. Any patent issuing from the earliest-filed U.S. application could expire as early as 2030. For the diagnostic tests that we develop based on our biomarker discoveries, we expect to rely primarily on patent protection. Several of our owned and licensed patent applications are in an early stage of prosecution, and we cannot assure you that any of the pending patent applications will result in patents being issued. In addition, due to technological changes that may affect our proposed products or judicial interpretation of the scope of our patents, our proposed products might not, now or in the future, be adequately covered by our patents. 33 Table of Contents The patentability of molecular biomarkers and of test methods and products based on biomarkers is well-established in most countries. However, the issue of any patent, including the patents for which we have applied, depends upon a detailed interpretation of the specific patent claims and prior art, and generally is highly uncertain because of the complex legal and factual considerations it involves. In recent years, patentability issues have been the subject of much litigation. For example, on March 20, 2012, the United States Supreme Court rendered its decision in Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc., in which the Court denied patent protection for patent claims covering methods that correlate the concentration of a well-known drug metabolite to the likely harm or ineffectiveness of the drug as a means of determining proper drug dosage. At issue was whether the claimed methods transformed unpatentable laws of nature into patent-eligible applications of those laws of nature. The Court held that the patent claims at issue effectively claim the underlying laws of nature themselves and thus ran afoul of the prohibition on patenting laws of nature, were not patent eligible and therefore, were determined to be invalid. Like other developers of diagnostic products, we are evaluating the Prometheus decision, analyzing how the decision may impact our patents and pending patent applications, and evaluating various patent prosecution strategies. In addition, we are waiting with interest to learn how the lower courts in the United States and the USPTO will apply this decision. The result of the case in the United States, although limited to the patent claims at issue in Prometheus, or other legal developments in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions may preclude or limit the patent protection available for our diagnostic tests and therapeutic methods. The patentability of claims currently pending, the validity and enforceability of issued or to be issued patent claims and the commercial value of our patent rights, therefore, are highly uncertain. In addition, we cannot be certain that we hold the rights to the technology covered by pending patent applications or to other proprietary technology required for us to commercialize our proposed products. Rights in applications filed by us or our licensors may be affected adversely by patent applications filed by others which have not yet been published. For example, because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after this date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. For this and other reasons, we may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity or co-exclusivity. It is also possible that one or more organizations will hold patent rights to which we will need a license. If those organizations refuse to grant us a license to such patent rights on reasonable terms, we will not be able to market our products. If third parties assert that we have infringed their patents and proprietary rights or challenge the validity of our patents and proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our proposed products. Our ability to commercialize our proposed products depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our proposed products without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may allege that our proposed products or our methods or discoveries infringe their intellectual property rights. Numerous U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in fields that relate to our proposed products and our underlying methodologies and discoveries, including patents and patent applications claiming methods for the discovery of biomarkers or biomarker sets and assay systems and methods designed to exploit them clinically in drug discovery efforts or in selection of patients. A third party may sue us for infringing its patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s attention from other aspects of our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. 34 Table of Contents If we are found to infringe upon intellectual property rights of third parties, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some or all of our products, which could limit our ability to generate revenue or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. Moreover, we expect that a number of our collaborations will provide that royalties payable to us for licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts paid by our collaborators to third parties who have competing or superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields, which could result in significant reductions in our revenue from products developed through collaborations. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology, pharmaceutical or diagnostic products companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. While we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the former employer’s intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information. Litigation based on such allegations may be brought against us, and even if we are successful in defending ourselves, we could incur substantial costs and our management could be distracted. If we fail in defending such allegations, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, we may be unable to protect our interests in proprietary technology, processes and know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, including, particularly our biomarker discovery methodologies. In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, in particular as we are required to make such information available to a larger pool of people as we seek to expand our discovery and development efforts and commercialize our proposed products. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees and consultants have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent technology, processes and know-how or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary technology, processes and know-how, competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. Several of our collaboration agreements provide for licenses to us of intellectual property or sharing of rights to intellectual property that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional agreements in the future that provide licenses to us of valuable technology. These licenses impose, and future licenses may impose, various commercialization, milestone and other obligations on us, including the obligation to terminate our use of patented subject matter under certain contingencies. If a licensor becomes entitled to, and exercises, termination rights under a license, we would lose valuable rights and our ability to develop our products. We may need to license other intellectual property to commercialize future products. Our business may suffer if any current or 35 Table of Contents future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. Risks Related To the Growth of Our Management Team, Workforce, Manufacturing and Facilities Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key employees and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. All of the arrangements with the principal members of our executive and scientific teams may be terminated by us or the employee at any time without notice. The loss of any of these persons’ expertise would be difficult to replace and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business goals. In addition, the loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our scientific staff may impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives by diverting management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, if any. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recruiting and retaining qualified sales and marketing and scientific personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and diagnostic companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of sales and marketing personnel from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and diagnostic companies. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have only a limited number of employees to manage and operate our business. As of February 28, 2014, we employed 23 full-time employees. Due to our limited cash, we have implemented a plan designed to focus our capital resources on our most promising indications and further reduce our cash utilization. Our focus on reducing our cash utilization requires us to manage and operate our business in a highly efficient manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain adequate staffing levels to run our operations and/or to accomplish all of the objectives that we otherwise would seek to accomplish. Failures in our information technology and storage systems could significantly disrupt our operations. Our ability to execute our business plan depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems, or IT systems. Despite the implementation of security measures, IT systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts, terrorism and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, could result in a material disruption in our operations. Furthermore, to the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed. 36 Table of Contents We rely on a single third party to manufacture and supply our product candidates. Any problems experienced by this vendor could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of our product candidates to us until this vendor cures the problem or until we locate and qualify an alternative source of supply. The manufacture of our diagnostic product candidates requires specialized equipment and utilizes complicated production processes that would be difficult, time-consuming and costly to duplicate. Corgenix Medical Corporation is currently the third-party manufacturer of our galectin-3 test. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our third-party manufacturer could have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture products on our own and would cause us to seek additional third-party manufacturing contracts, thereby increasing our development and any commercialization costs. We may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed coverage under our manufacturer’s insurance policies. Events beyond our control, such as natural disasters, fire, sabotage or business accidents could have a significant negative impact on our operations by disrupting our product candidate development and commercialization efforts until our third-party manufacturer can repair its facility or put in place third-party contract manufacturers to assume this manufacturing role, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if we are required to change manufacturers for any reason, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer or the reverification of an existing manufacturer could negatively affect our ability to develop product candidates or produce approved products in a timely manner. Any delay or interruption in our clinical studies for the validation and commercialization of our product candidates could negatively affect our business. In pursuing our commercialization strategy for our BGM Galectin-3 Test for heart failure, we are particularly dependent upon Health Diagnostic Laboratory, Inc., or HDL, which was responsible for approximately 74% of our galectin-3 sales in 2013. Any disruption in HDL’s operations or problems that otherwise adversely affect our business relationship with HDL could result in a delay or interruption of the sales volume of our galectin-3 test. In pursuing our commercialization strategy for our BGM Galectin-3 Test for heart failure, we are particularly dependent upon HDL, which was responsible for approximately 74% of our galectin-3 test sales in 2013. In March 2011, we entered into a supply agreement with HDL pursuant to which HDL agreed to make our microplate galectin-3 test available to physicians in the United States. Under the agreement, we agreed to provide HDL with certain clinical market development resources, programs and assistance as reasonably requested by HDL, and HDL agreed to perform certain sales, marketing and marketing education activities in support of our galectin-3 test. Accordingly, we may suffer losses as a result of any business interruptions experienced by HDL or if our relationship with HDL is otherwise adversely affected. Any prolonged disruption in HDL’s operations or problem that otherwise undermines our business relationship with HDL could have a significant negative impact on our ability to execute on our commercialization strategy for our galectin-3 test in the United States and to increase the sales volume of our galectin-3 test. If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage, and such claims may harm our business in other ways. Our business exposes us to product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of diagnostic products. Although we currently maintain limited product liability insurance, we anticipate needing to secure additional product liability insurance for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We cannot be certain whether we will be able to secure such insurance on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A product liability claim in excess of any insurance coverage we may obtain would have to be paid out of our cash reserves and could harm our business. In addition, any injunction or other restriction on our ability to sell against one of our product candidates could harm our business. 37 Table of Contents If we complete our development of any diagnostic tests, the marketing, sale and use of our tests could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that our product failed to perform as it was designed. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming for us to defend. We cannot provide assurance that our product liability insurance would protect us from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, result in the recall of our product candidates, or cause current collaborators to terminate existing agreements and potential collaborators to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. Risks Related To Our Common Stock The trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Additionally, the public float of our common stock is approximately 66% of our outstanding shares of common stock, as of February 28, 2014, which substantially reduces the liquidity of our common stock and contributes to the limited trading volume for our common stock. Since our initial listing on The NASDAQ Global Market on February 4, 2011 and the transfer of our listing to The NASDAQ Capital Market on January 27, 2014, the trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market. The quotation of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists. We cannot predict whether a more active market for our common stock will develop in the future. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to sell our common stock at current market prices in short time periods, or possibly at all. Additionally, market visibility for our common stock may be limited and such lack of visibility may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. The public float of our common stock is approximately 66% of our outstanding shares of common stock, as of February 28, 2014, which adversely affects the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock; in as much as federal securities laws restrict sales of our shares by these stockholders. If our affiliates continue to hold their shares of common stock, there will be limited trading volume in our common stock, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares or increase the volatility of our stock price. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may drop. Prior to our initial public offering in February 2011, there was no public market for our common stock and having been a publicly traded company for only three years, it is too early to determine whether an active trading market will develop and continue. There is a limited history, exacerbated by low average daily trading volume, on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price. The stock markets and the markets for medical diagnostics and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. For example, our common stock traded as high as $3.15 and as low as $0.55 during 2013. Some of the many factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • our ability to commercialize the products, if any, that we are able to develop; • the progress and results of our product candidate development efforts; • actions taken by regulatory authorities with respect to our product candidates, or our sales and marketing activities; • regulatory developments in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions; • the outcome of legal actions to which we may become a party; • announcements concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; 38 Table of Contents • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; • restatements of our financial results and/or material weaknesses in our internal controls; • publication of research reports about us or the diagnostic products industry by securities or industry analysts; • fluctuations in our operating results; and • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts or other analyst comments. Any broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may not be able to sell when they desire due to insufficient buyer demand and may realize less than, or lose all of, their investment. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our financial condition, operating results and reputation. Insiders control a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management and/or the board of directors. Certain of our directors, principal stockholders and/or their affiliates, including Flagship Ventures, or Flagship, General Electric Pension Trust, or GE, and Stelios Papadopoulos control approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2014. Accordingly, these stockholders, if acting as a group, or Flagship, which alone controls approximately 29% of our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2014, will have control or substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, and they may in some instances exercise this control or substantial influence in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control, could deprive investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for our common stock as part of a sale and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted and the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted. Our common stock is currently listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market and our potential delisting matter was closed on March 11, 2014. However, as disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 15, 2013, on November 14, 2013, we were notified by NASDAQ that we no longer satisfied the $50 million market value of listed securities requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market and that our common stock was therefore subject to delisting. We subsequently requested a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel, or the Panel, and during the hearing on January 9, 2014 we requested, and later in January 2014 we received, the approval from the Panel to transfer the listing of our common stock to The NASDAQ Capital Market pursuant to an extension within which to evidence compliance with the continued listing requirements by April 15, 2014. Accordingly, our common stock was transferred from The NASDAQ Global Market to The NASDAQ Capital Market on January 27, 2014. On March 11, 2014, we were notified by NASDAQ that we had regained compliance with the minimum market value of listed securities rule and the NASDAQ matter had been closed. If we fail to maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted in the future. A delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Capital Market could substantially further reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in a corresponding 39 Table of Contents material reduction in the price of our common stock. In addition, delisting could harm our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may result in the potential loss of confidence by investors, suppliers, customers and employees and fewer business development opportunities. The requirements of being a public company require greater resources, increase our costs and distract our management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company with equity securities listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we now incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We are required to comply with certain rules, regulations and requirements with which we were not required to comply prior to becoming a public company. Complying with rules, regulations and requirements will require substantial effort on the part of our board of directors and management and will increase our costs and expenses. We will be required to: • institute a more formalized function of internal control over financial reporting; • prepare and distribute periodic and current public reports; • formalize old and establish new internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and • establish and maintain an investor relations function, including the provision of certain information on our website. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we determined that we had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting which would harm our business and the trading of our stock. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, we determined that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditor’s audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Since having become a publicly traded company in February 2011, we have continually assessed the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, and the year ended December 31, 2012 was the first time that our independent auditor was required to audit that assessment. In the course of our assessment and our auditor’s audit of our assessment, deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2012 were identified, including: (i) the documentation of our internal controls over financial reporting was missing adequate evidential matter to provide reasonable support for management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the controls; (ii) our design and implementation of certain controls were incomplete; (iii) we did not complete our documentation with sufficient specificity to demonstrate the operating effectiveness of our controls; (iv) we did not have sufficient time to adequately test the operating effectiveness of our controls prior to December 31, 2012; and (v) we did not have sufficient time to implement certain key information technology controls, including access controls and change management controls prior to December 31, 2012. These deficiencies collectively result in a material weakness, which is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Immediately following our identification of the material weakness, in early 2013, we hired an external specialist who assisted us to develop, implement and execute a plan to make 40 Table of Contents necessary improvements to our internal control over financial reporting, including: (i) remediating our controls documentation in areas that lacked specificity; (ii) adding documentation to evidence the operating effectiveness of existing controls, and (iii) completing the implementation of certain key information technology controls, including access controls and change management controls. Following the implementation and execution of our remediation plan during 2013, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2013. Our independent auditor was not required to audit management’s assessment at that time, because the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates was less than the threshold required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we determine in future fiscal periods that we have other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reports may be impacted or we could be required to restate our financial statements. In addition, our failure to successfully remediate a material weakness in the future could result in adverse consequences to us, including, but not limited to, a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts who cover us or our industry make unfavorable comments about our market opportunity or product candidates or downgrade our common stock, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the market price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. In addition to using our common stock purchase agreement with Aspire Capital to raise capital in the public markets, we may seek the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and collaborative and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, existing stockholders ownership interests will be diluted and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect their rights as a stockholder. Additional debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Because we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, our stockholders will benefit from their investment in shares only if our common stock appreciates in value. We have not paid dividends to our stockholders since our inception and we are currently prohibited from making any dividend payments under the terms of the term loan facility with our lenders. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. 41 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current members of our board and management. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which they might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our board of directors. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; • establish a classified board of directors, such that not all members of the board of directors may be elected at one time; • authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock, the rights of which will be determined at the discretion of the board of directors that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights on our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Purchase Agreement with Aspire Capital The sale of our common stock to Aspire Capital would cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. In January 2013, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement, or the purchase agreement, with Aspire Capital, which provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations set forth therein, Aspire Capital is committed to purchase, at our option, up to an aggregate of $12 million of shares of the Company’s common stock over the two-year term of the purchase agreement. In addition, upon entering into the purchase agreement, we issued commitment shares to Aspire Capital for no cash consideration, and we may sell additional shares to Aspire Capital under the purchase agreement. We anticipate that the shares we issue to Aspire Capital under the purchase agreement will later be sold by Aspire Capital over approximately the same two-year period although we have no control over their sales process. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by us to Aspire Capital will result in immediate dilution to our existing stockholders and to purchasers of common stock in the offering contemplated hereby. The sale by us of shares to Aspire Capital under the purchase agreement could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We may cause Aspire Capital to purchase all, some or none of the $12 million of common stock offered under the purchase agreement, up to a maximum of 4,106,071 total shares issued under the purchase agreement without stockholder approval. The purchase price for the common stock we may sell to Aspire Capital pursuant to the 42 Table of Contents purchase agreement will fluctuate based on the trading price of our common stock in the public market. In addition, Aspire Capital may then sell all, some or none of the shares we issue to it under the purchase agreement. Depending upon market liquidity during that period, a resale of shares by Aspire Capital at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by us to Aspire Capital or by Aspire Capital in the open market, or the anticipation of such sales, could cause the price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect such sales. Securities regulations may restrict our ability to access the full amount of our committed equity facility with Aspire Capital. Although we have entered into the purchase agreement with Aspire Capital for a maximum amount of $12 million, NASDAQ rules limit our ability to issue more than 19.99% of our currently outstanding shares to Aspire Capital without stockholder approval to exceed that amount. Similarly, SEC rules may also restrict our ability to readily access the full amount of the committed equity facility or to access the facility in a manner that would be meaningful to fund our operations and execute on our commercialization strategy to the extent we believe would be required to generate value for our stockholders. As a result, we may not realize the full value of the facility, which would undermine our ability to sufficiently address our need for additional capital, and our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 