ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the information in this annual report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating the company and its business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Subject to our initial objective of acquiring a business in the financial services industry, we have not yet selected a target business with which to consummate our initial business combination. As a result, we are unable to ascertain the merits or risks of the business in which we may ultimately operate. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We are a newly formed development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating results to date. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing an initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target business concerning an initial business combination and may be unable to complete an initial business combination. If we expend all of the $50,000 in proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust and interest income earned of up to $2.75 million (subject to the holdback of a sufficient amount of interest income to pay any due and unpaid taxes on such $2.75 million) on the balance of the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking an initial business combination, but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. We may not be able to consummate an initial business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would be forced to liquidate our assets. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, if we fail to consummate an initial business combination by November 14, 2009, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. The foregoing requirements are set forth in Article Sixth of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and may not be eliminated except in connection with, and upon consummation of, an initial business combination or an amendment approved by 100% of our stockholders. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of an initial business combination. If we are unable to consummate an initial business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait until after November 14, 2009 before receiving liquidation distributions. We have no obligation to return funds to public stockholders prior to November 14, 2009 unless we consummate an initial business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where public stockholders have sought conversion of their shares. Only after November 14, 2009 will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete an initial business combination. Accordingly, public stockholders’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to stockholders of blank check companies. Because the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete an initial business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, because our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, or the AMEX, a national securities exchange, and we have net tangible assets in excess of $5.0 million and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect stockholders in blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, stockholders will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Among other things, this means that we will have a longer period of time to complete our initial business combination in some circumstances than do companies subject to Rule 419. Moreover, offerings subject to Rule 419 18 would prohibit the release of any interest earned on funds held in the trust account to us unless and until the funds in the trust account were released to us in connection with our consummation of an initial business combination. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being held in trust are insufficient to allow us to operate until at least November 14, 2009, we may be unable to complete an initial business combination. We currently believe that the funds outside of the trust account available to us from the proceeds of our initial public offering, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate until at least November 14, 2009, assuming that an initial business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed initial business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. We may require stockholders who wish to convert their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights prior to the deadline for exercising conversion rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares to either tender their certificates to our transfer agent or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using DTC’s DWAC system at any time up until the business day immediately preceding the day on which the vote is taken at the stockholder meeting held for the purpose of approving the initial business combination. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. If it takes longer than anticipated to obtain a physical certificate, public stockholders who wish to convert may be unable to obtain physical certificates by the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus will be unable to convert their shares. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of the target businesses we intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining debt financing in connection with, or after, our initial business combination. A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete an initial business combination because we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our tax obligations and to complete our initial business combination. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. A substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our initial stockholders to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Our initial stockholders are under no obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. 19 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders may be less than approximately $9.88 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we have sought and will seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses with which we negotiate, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. There is also no guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Further, we could be subject to claims from parties not in contract with us who have not executed a waiver, such as a third party claiming tortious interference as a result of our initial business combination. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over those of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than $9.88 due to claims of such creditors. If we liquidate before the completion of an initial business combination and distribute to our public stockholders the proceeds held in trust, David A. Minella, our chairman and chief executive officer, LLM Structured Equity Fund L.P. and LLM Investors L.P. have agreed that they will be liable, by means of direct payment to the trust account, to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. However, the agreement entered into by Mr. Minella, LLM Structured Equity Fund L.P. and LLM Investors L.P. specifically provides for an exception to this indemnity; there will be no liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a waiver (even if such waiver is subsequently found to be invalid and unenforceable). Furthermore, there could be claims from parties other than vendors or target businesses that would not be covered by the indemnity from Mr. Minella, LLM Structured Equity Fund L.P. and LLM Investors L.P., such as stockholders and other claimants who are not parties in contract with us who file a claim for damages against us. The measures described above are the only actions we will take to ensure that the funds in the trust account are not depleted by claims against the trust. Because we have sought and will seek to have all vendors and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind they may have in or to any monies held in the trust account, we believe the likelihood of Mr. Minella, LLM Structured Equity Fund L.P. and LLM Investors L.P. having any such obligations is minimal. Based on representations made to us by Mr. Minella, LLM Structured Equity Fund L.P. and LLM Investors L.P. at the time the indemnity was executed as to their accredited investor status (as such term is defined in Regulation D under the Securities Act) and that they have sufficient funds available to them to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us, we believe they will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations that may arise and we will enforce our rights under these indemnification arrangements against each of Mr. Minella, LLM Structured Equity Fund L.P. and LLM Investors L.P. However, in the event Mr. Minella, LLM Structured Equity Fund L.P. and LLM Investors L.P. have liability to us under these indemnification arrangements, we cannot assure you that they will have the assets necessary to satisfy those obligations. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust account, if we liquidate, will not be less than $9.88 due to such claims. Additionally, if we file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $9.88 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. If we are unable to complete an initial business combination by November 14, 2009, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant to Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, in which case we will as promptly as practicable thereafter adopt a plan of distribution in accordance with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 278 provides that our existence will continue for at least three years after its expiration for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits, whether civil, criminal or administrative, by or against us, and of enabling us gradually to settle and close our business, to dispose of and convey our property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our stockholders any remaining assets, but not for the purpose of continuing the business for which we were organized. Our existence will continue automatically even beyond the three-year period for the purpose of completing the prosecution or defense of suits begun prior to the expiration of the three-year period, until such time as any judgments, orders or decrees resulting from such suits are fully executed. Section 281(b) will require us to pay or make reasonable provision for all then-existing claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional, or unmatured 20 contractual claims known to us, and to make such provision as will be reasonably likely to be sufficient to provide compensation for any then-pending claims and for claims that have not been made known to us or that have not arisen but that, based on facts known to us at the time, are likely to arise or to become known to us within ten years after November 14, 2009. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent ten years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust account to stockholders. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors that we engage (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) and potential target businesses. We have sought and will seek to have all vendors that we engage and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account. Accordingly, we believe the claims that could be made against us should be limited, thereby lessening the likelihood that any claim would result in any liability extending to the trust account. However, we cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute to our public stockholders the proceeds held in the trust account promptly after November 14, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or having acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and us to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. An effective registration statement may not be in place when a warrant holder desires to exercise his, her or its warrants, thus precluding such warrant holder from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. No warrant held by public stockholders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time such holder seeks to exercise such warrant, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act in effect covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to these shares of common stock. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to have a registration statement in effect covering shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants from the date the warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to these shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise, whether by net cash settlement or otherwise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants held by public stockholders may have no value, we will have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash, the market for such warrants may be limited, and such warrants may expire worthless. A warrant holder will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following our completion of an initial business combination), we expect to either continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state, or we would register the warrants in every state (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of 21 warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants and they may expire worthless if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Because we have not yet selected any target business with which to complete our initial business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations. Because we have not yet identified a prospective target business, our stockholders currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’ operations. To the extent we complete our initial business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of such entities. Although our management will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that they will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Except for the limitation that a target business have a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) and be in the financial services industry, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. If the private placement is determined not to have been in compliance with applicable law, our sponsors may have the right to rescind their warrant purchases. Their rescission rights, if any, may require us to refund an aggregate of $5,250,000 to our sponsors, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate our initial business combination, or, in the event we do not complete our initial business combination by November 14, 2009, the amount available to our public stockholders upon our liquidation. Although we believe that we conducted the private placement in accordance with applicable law, there is a risk that the sponsors’ warrants should have been registered under the Securities Act and applicable blue sky laws. Although our sponsors have waived their rights, if any, to rescind their warrant purchases as a remedy for our failure to register these securities, their waiver may not be enforceable in light of the public policy underlying federal and state securities laws. If the sponsors bring a claim against us and successfully assert rescission rights, we may be required to refund an aggregate of $5,250,000, plus interest, to them, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate our initial business combination, or, in the event we do not complete our initial business combination by November 14, 2009, the amount available to our public stockholders upon our liquidation. Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential initial business combination will be limited to voting for or against the initial business combination submitted to our stockholders for approval. Our stockholders will not be provided with an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of one or more target businesses. Accordingly, our stockholders’ only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential initial business combination is limited to voting for or against the initial business combination submitted to our stockholders for approval. In addition, a proposal that a stockholder votes against could still be approved if a sufficient number of public stockholders vote for the proposed initial business combination. Alternatively, a proposal that a stockholder votes for could still be rejected if a sufficient number of public stockholders vote against the proposed initial business combination. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm as to the fair market value of the target business unless our board of directors is unable to independently determine the fair market value or unless we seek to acquire or merge with a registered broker-dealer. The fair market value of a target business or businesses will be determined by our board of directors based upon one or more standards generally accepted by the financial community (such as actual and potential sales, the values of comparable businesses, earnings and cash flow, and/or book value). If our board of directors is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value to meet the threshold criterion, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm that is a member of the FINRA with respect to the satisfaction of such criterion. If we wish to merge with or acquire a registered broker-dealer, we will obtain an opinion with respect to the fair market value of the target business from an independent investment bank that meets the requirements of a “qualified independent underwriter” under the FINRA rules. In all other instances, we will have no obligation to obtain or provide you with an opinion with respect to the fair market value of the target business. While our board of directors will use one or more standards generally accepted by the financial community in determining the fair market value of a target business or businesses, we cannot assure you that our board of directors will not overvalue a potential target. If the board of directors does overvalue a potential target, a stockholder’s only recourse will be to vote against the proposed business combination. 22 We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete an initial business combination. Issuance of our capital stock would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and may cause a change in control of our ownership, while the issuance of debt securities may have a significant impact on our ability to utilize our available cash. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 72,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. Currently there are 10,500,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the sponsors’ warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the date of this annual report, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete an initial business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce equity interest for stockholders; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; · may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; · may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the stock ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of our company; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. The value of a stockholder’s investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific initial business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control such as that 30% or more of our public stockholders vote against the initial business combination and opt to have us convert their stock for a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our stockholders approve the initial business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Our ability to successfully effect an initial business combination and to be successful thereafter is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following an initial business combination. 23 Our ability to successfully effect an initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including David A. Minella, our chairman and chief executive officer, Patrick J. Landers, our president and a director, and James J. Cahill, our chief financial officer and secretary. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of Messrs. Minella, Landers and Cahill, at least until we have consummated an initial business combination. We cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, Messrs. Minella, Landers and Cahill are not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential initial business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. We do not have any employment agreements with, or key-man insurance on the lives of, any of these individuals. The unexpected loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. The role of our key personnel in the target business cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following an initial business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after an initial business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues, which may adversely affect our operations. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following an initial business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel will be able to remain with us after the consummation of an initial business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the initial business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the initial business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of an initial business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision to proceed with any potential business combination. Our officers’ and directors’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Unless we consummate our initial business combination, our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the trust account and the amount of interest income from the trust account up to a maximum of $2.75 million (subject to the holdback of a sufficient amount of interest income to pay any due and unpaid taxes on such $2.75 million) that may be released to us as working capital. These amounts are based on management’s estimates of the funds needed to finance our operations until at least November 14, 2009 and to pay expenses in identifying and consummating our initial business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment in connection with our initial business combination or pay exclusivity or similar fees or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an initial business combination that is not consummated. Our officers and directors may, as part of any business combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. We do not have a policy that prohibits our officers and directors from negotiating for the reimbursement of such expenses by a target business. If the owners of the target business do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our officers or directors could influence our officers’ and directors’ motivation in selecting a target business and therefore there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate an initial business combination. 24 Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not currently have and we do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of an initial business combination. All of our executive officers and certain directors are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate an initial business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. See “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance — Conflicts of Interest.” Certain of our executive officers, directors and sponsors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our executive officers, directors and sponsors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. As of the date of this annual report, Patrick J. Landers, our president and a director, is affiliated with LLM Capital Partners LLC, a private equity firm based in Boston, and Annascaul Advisors LLC, a FINRA affiliated firm, Michael P. Castine is affiliated with Sugar Hill Investments, LLC, a private investment office and consulting firm, and Dover Management LLC, an investment advisory firm, William Cvengros is affiliated with National Retirement Partners Inc., a retirement plan advisory services firm, Daniel Gressel is affiliated with Teleos Management, L.L.C., a hedge fund management firm, and William Landman is affiliated with Capital Management Systems Inc. See “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance — Conflicts of Interest.” Furthermore, each of our principals may become involved with subsequent blank check companies similar to our company, although they have agreed not to participate in the formation of, or become an officer or director of, any blank check company that may complete an initial business combination with an entity in the financial services industry until the earlier of (i) the date on which we have entered into a definitive agreement regarding our initial business combination or (ii) November 14, 2009. Additionally, our officers, directors and sponsors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe contractual or other fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have fiduciary obligations and other conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may miss out on a potential transaction. We have entered into a business opportunity right of first review agreement with David A. Minella, our chairman and chief executive officer, who is affiliated with Flat Ridge Investments LLC, one of our sponsors, and Patrick J. Landers, our president and a director, who is affiliated with LLM Structured Equity Fund L.P. and LLM Investors L.P., two of our sponsors, James J. Cahill, our chief financial officer and secretary, William Landman, one of our directors, who is affiliated with Capital Management Systems, Inc., one of our sponsors, and Michael P. Castine, William Cvengros, Michael Downey, Daniel Gressel and John Merchant, each of whom is a director, and each of our sponsors, which provides that we will have a right of first review with respect to business combination opportunities of Messrs. Minella, Landers, Cahill, Landman, Castine, Cvengros, Downey, Gressel, Merchant and each of our sponsors, and companies or other entities that they manage or control, in the financial services industry with an enterprise value of $195 million or more. See “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance — Conflicts of Interest.” Certain of our directors and entities affiliated with certain of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock issued prior to our initial public offering and some of them own warrants purchased at the time of our initial public offering. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination. Certain of our directors and entities affiliated with certain of our officers and directors, own shares of our common stock that were issued prior to our initial public offering in consideration for an aggregate purchase price of $25,000. Additionally, Flat Ridge Investments LLC, LLM Structured Equity Fund L.P., LLM Investors L.P. and Capital Management Systems, Inc. purchased 3,150,000, 1,646,400, 33,600 and 420,000 sponsors’ warrants, respectively, each at a purchase price of $1.00 per warrant, immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering. Such purchasers have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to the founders’ common stock upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate an initial business combination. Accordingly, the founders’ common stock as well as the sponsors’ warrants will be worthless if we do not consummate an initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing an initial business combination. 25 Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. The AMEX may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit securities holders’ ability to trade our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the AMEX, a national securities exchange. Although we currently satisfy the minimum initial listing standards set forth in Section 101(c) of the AMEX Company Guide, which only requires that we meet certain requirements relating to stockholders’ equity, market capitalization, aggregate market value of publicly held shares and distribution requirements, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the AMEX in the future prior to an initial business combination. Additionally, in connection with our initial business combination, it is likely that the AMEX will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the AMEX delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business that may have a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with a target business having a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of such acquisition, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several businesses or assets at the same time. However, we may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating an initial business combination with only a single entity, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification could make us more vulnerable to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to an initial business combination. Alternatively, if we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses or assets, which are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the initial business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. We may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies, which may present certain challenges to us including the lack of available information about these companies. 26 In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies. By definition, very little public information exists about these companies, and we could be required to make our decision whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our initial stockholders) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the initial business combination and the initial business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Because we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps to secure third party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate an initial business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. We may proceed with our initial business combination even if public stockholders owning up to 7,499,999 of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. We may proceed with our initial business combination as long as public stockholders owning less than 30% of the shares (minus one share) sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, public stockholders holding up to 30% of the shares (minus one share) sold in our initial public offering, or 7,499,999 shares of common stock, may exercise their conversion rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have set the conversion percentage at 30% (minus one share) in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of stockholders holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. While there are a few other offerings similar to ours that include conversion provisions greater than 20%, the 20% threshold is customary and standard for blank check companies similar to ours. Our business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of stockholders exercise their conversion rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following our initial business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of an initial business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating an initial business combination. If we are unable to consummate an initial business combination with a target business by November 14, 2009, we will be forced to liquidate. 27 We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete an initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering, including the interest earned on the proceeds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to consummate an initial business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate an initial business combination, we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after an initial business combination. Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which generally serves for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of an initial business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the initial business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of an initial business combination. In the event that our sponsors, initial stockholders, officers or directors purchase additional shares of our common stock, we believe that they will vote any such shares acquired by them in favor of our initial business combination and in favor of an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence in connection with a vote to approve our initial business combination. Thus, any additional purchase of shares of our common stock by our sponsors, initial stockholders, officers or directors would likely allow them to exert additional influence over the approval of our initial business combination. Our management’s ability to require holders of our warrants to exercise such warrants on a cashless basis will cause holders to receive fewer shares of common stock upon their exercise of the warrants than they would have received had they been able to exercise their warrants for cash. If we call our warrants for redemption after the redemption criteria have been satisfied, our management will have the option to require any holder that wishes to exercise his warrant to do so on a “cashless basis.” In such event, each holder would pay the exercise price by surrendering the warrants for that number of shares of common stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the product of the number of shares of common stock underlying the warrants, multiplied by the difference between the exercise price of the warrants and the “fair market value” and (y) the fair market value. The “fair market value” shall mean the average reported last sales prices of our common stock for the ten trading days ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which notice of redemption is sent to the holders of the warrants. If our management chooses to require holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, the number of shares of common stock received by a holder upon exercise will be fewer than it would have been had such holder exercised his warrants for cash. This will have the effect of reducing the potential “upside” of the holder’s investment in our company. We may redeem warrant holders’ unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to them, thereby making such warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the common stock equals or exceeds $14.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common 28 stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force a warrant holder (i) to exercise its warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for it to do so, (ii) to sell its warrants at the then current market price when it might otherwise wish to hold such warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price that, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect an initial business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 25,000,000 shares of common stock as part of the units in our initial public offering and the sponsors’ warrants to purchase 5,250,000 shares of common stock (an aggregate of 30,250,000 warrants). To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect an initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the initial business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate an initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our initial stockholders or our sponsors or their permitted transferees exercise their registration rights with respect to the founders’ common stock or sponsors’ warrants and underlying securities, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect an initial business combination. The initial stockholders or their permitted transferees are entitled to up to three demands that we register the resale of the founders’ common stock at any time generally commencing nine months after the consummation of our initial business combination. Additionally, our sponsors or their permitted transferees are entitled to up to three demands that we register the resale of their sponsors’ warrants and underlying shares of common stock at any time after we consummate an initial business combination. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If such individuals exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 6,250,000 shares of common stock and 5,250,000 warrants (as well as 5,250,000 shares of common stock underlying the warrants) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional securities trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate an initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into an initial business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential negative effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States. If we did, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: · rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; · tariffs and trade barriers; · regulations related to customs and import/export matters; · longer payment cycles; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; · currency fluctuations and exchange controls; · challenges in collecting accounts receivable; · cultural and language differences; 29 · employment regulations; · crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and · deterioration of political relations with the United States. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. If we effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for stockholders in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete an initial business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Because we have invested and will continue to invest the proceeds held in the trust account, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trustee only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete an initial business combination, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain other burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements, we may not be able to complete an initial business combination with some prospective target businesses. 30 We will provide stockholders with audited financial statements of the prospective target business as part of the proxy solicitation materials sent to stockholders to assist them in assessing the target business. In all likelihood, these financial statements will need to be prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. We cannot assure you that any particular target business identified by us as a potential acquisition candidate will have financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles or that the potential target business will be able to prepare its financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. To the extent that this requirement cannot be met, we may not be able to acquire the proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, holding and disposition of target companies and assets. We may incur significant taxes in connection with: effecting acquisitions; holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets; and disposing of target companies and assets. Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry Business combinations with companies with operations in the financial services industry entail special considerations and risks. If we are successful in completing a business combination with a target business with operations in the financial services industry, we will be subject to, and possibly adversely affected by, the following risks: The financial services industry faces substantial regulatory and litigation risks and conflicts of interest, and, after the consummation of a business combination with a company in the financial services industry, we may face legal liability and reduced revenues and profitability if our services are not regarded as compliant or for other reasons. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. Many regulators, including United States and foreign government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions and attorneys general, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings and investigations that can result in, among other things, censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, prohibitions against engaging in some lines of business or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or investment adviser. The requirements imposed by regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with financial services firms and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Regulations and investigations may result in limitations on our activities such as the restrictions imposed on several leading securities firms as part of a settlement these firms reached with federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations in 2003 to resolve investigations into equity research analysts’ alleged conflicts of interest. Governmental and self-regulatory organizations, including the SEC, the FINRA and national securities exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange, impose and enforce regulations on financial services companies. United States self-regulatory organizations adopt rules, subject to approval by the SEC, that govern aspects of the financial services industry and conduct periodic examinations of the operations of registered broker-dealers and investment advisers. For example, United States broker-dealers are subject to rules and regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business including: sales methods and trade practices; use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities; capital structures; recordkeeping; the preparation of research; the extension of credit; and the conduct of officers and employees. The types of regulations to which 31 investment advisers are subject are also extensive and include: recordkeeping; fee arrangements; client disclosure; custody of customer assets; and the conduct of officers and employees. The SEC, the FINRA and various regulatory agencies also have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities brokerage firms. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion from the FINRA and other regulatory bodies, which ultimately could prevent any broker-dealer that we acquire or acquire control of from conducting broker-dealer activities. In addition, a change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against net capital could limit the operations of broker-dealers, which could harm our business if we were to consummate a business combination with a securities brokerage firm. The regulatory environment in which we will operate is also subject to modifications and further regulations. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to us may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. For example, recently the insurance industry has been subject to a significant level of scrutiny by various regulatory bodies, including state attorneys general and insurance departments, concerning certain practices within the insurance industry. These practices include, without limitation, the receipt of contingent commissions by insurance brokers and agents from insurance companies and the extent to which such compensation has been disclosed, bid rigging and related matters. As a result of these and related matters, including actions taken by the New York State Attorney General, there have been a number of proposals to modify various state laws and regulations regarding insurance agents and brokers, including proposals by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, that could impose additional legal obligations, including disclosure obligations, on us if we were to offer insurance or other financial products. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services firms has been increasing. After our business combination, our engagement agreements or arrangements may include provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. We also will be subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. The risk of significant legal liability is often difficult to assess or quantify and its existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. Financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts of interest. We will need to adopt various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, these policies, controls and procedures may result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. After the consummation of our initial business combination, we will face strong competition from financial services firms, many of whom have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we may be able to offer, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. After consummation of our initial business combination in the financial services industry, we will compete with other firms — both domestic and foreign — on a number of bases, including the quality of our employees, transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We may fail to attract new business and we may lose clients if, among other reasons, we are not able to compete effectively. We will also face significant competition as result of a recent trend toward consolidation in this industry. In the past several years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products such as loans, deposit-taking, insurance, brokerage, investment management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenue in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure on other businesses. The passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999 reduced barriers to large institutions providing a wide range of financial services products and services. We 32 believe, in light of increasing industry consolidation and the regulatory overhaul of the financial services industry, that competition will continue to increase from providers of financial services products. The financial services industry has inherent risks, which may affect our net income and revenues. The financial services business is, by its nature, subject to numerous and substantial risks, including volatile trading markets and fluctuations in the volume of market activity. Consequently, our net income and revenues are likely to be subject to wide fluctuations, reflecting the effect of many factors, including: general economic conditions; securities market conditions; the level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices; competitive conditions; liquidity of global markets; international and regional political conditions; regulatory and legislative developments; monetary and fiscal policy; investor sentiment; availability and cost of capital; technological changes and events; outcome of legal proceedings; changes in currency values; inflation; credit ratings; and the size, volume and timing of transactions. These and other factors could affect the stability and liquidity of securities and future markets, and the ability of issuers, other securities firms and counterparties to perform their obligations. A reduced volume of securities and futures transactions and reduced market liquidity generally results in lower revenues from principal transactions and commissions. Lower price levels for securities may result in a reduced volume of transactions and may also result in losses from declines in the market value of securities held in proprietary trading and underwriting accounts, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, or in markets influenced by sustained periods of low or negative economic growth, including the risk of losses resulting from the ownership of securities, trading and the failure of counterparties to meet commitments. In particular, if we consummate a business combination with an investment management firm, our business could be expected to generate lower revenue in a market or general economic downturn. Under a typical arrangement for an investment management business, the investment advisory fees we could receive would be based on the market value of the assets under management. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities would be expected to cause our revenue and income to decline by: · causing the value of the assets under management to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory fees; · causing negative absolute performance returns for some accounts that have performance-based incentive fees, resulting in a reduction of revenue from such fees; or · causing some of our clients to withdraw funds from our investment management business in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity and lower risk, which also would result in lower investment advisory fees. Many financial services firms face credit risks that, if not properly managed, could cause revenues and net income to decrease. Many types of financial services firms, including banks and broker-dealers, lend funds to their customers. Among the risks all lenders face is the risk that some of their borrowers will not repay their loans. The ability of borrowers to repay their obligations may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including local and general economic and market conditions. A substantial portion of the loans may be secured by liens on real estate or securities. These same factors may adversely affect the value of real estate and securities as collateral. If we enter into a business combination with a firm that makes loans, we would maintain an allowance for loan losses to reflect the level of losses determined by management to be inherent in the loan portfolio. However, the level of the allowance and the amount of the provisions would only be estimates based on management’s judgment, and actual losses incurred could materially exceed the amount of the allowance or require substantial additional provisions to the allowance, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. Members of the United States Congress are reviewing the tax laws applicable to investment partnerships, including the taxation of “carried interest,” and these laws could be changed in a manner that materially impacts the asset management sector within the broader asset management industry. Some members of the United States Congress are considering legislative proposals to treat all or part of the income, including capital gain and dividend income, recognized by an investment partnership and allocable to a partner affiliated with the sponsor of the partnership (i.e. “carried interest”) as ordinary income to such partner for United States federal income tax purposes. Depending on the specific provisions, the enactment of any such legislation could materially increase taxes payable by equity holders of certain asset management businesses and/or materially increase the tax liability of asset management 33 businesses and thus reduce the value of their outstanding equity. In the event that we acquire a business in the asset management sector, any such change in the United States federal tax laws may have a material adverse effect on our profitability by increasing our tax liabilities, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We may be subject to significant regulatory requirements in connection with our efforts to consummate a business combination with a financial services firm, which may result in our failure to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame and may force us to liquidate. Acquisitions of financial services companies are often subject to significant regulatory requirements and consents, and we will not be able to consummate a business combination with certain types of financial services companies without complying with applicable laws and regulations and obtaining required governmental or client consents. For example, if we were to attempt to acquire or acquire control of an investment management firm, we would have to obtain consents of the firm’s investment management clients or enter into new contracts with them, and there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain such consents or enter into new contracts. Similarly, if we were to attempt to acquire certain banks, we would be required to obtain the approvals of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and/or state banking commissions. If our acquisition target were an insurance company, state insurance commissioners in the states where the insurance company does business would review an acquisition transaction and could prevent it by withholding their consent. The acquisition of a business in other sectors of the financial services industry may require similar approvals or consents. We may not receive any such required approvals or we may not receive them in a timely manner, including as a result of factors or matters beyond our control. Satisfying any statutory or regulatory requirements may delay the date of our completion of our initial business combination beyond the required time frame (November 14, 2009). If we fail to consummate our initial business combination by November 14, 2009, we may be forced to liquidate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 