Item 1A. Risk Factors Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and/or future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business The success of our business is significantly related to general economic conditions and the real estate industry and, accordingly, our business has been and could continue to be harmed by the economic slowdown and downturn in real estate asset values, property sales and leasing activities. Our business is closely tied to general economic conditions and the real estate industry. As a result, our economic performance, the value of our real estate and real estate secured notes, and our ability to implement our business strategies may be affected by changes in national and local economic conditions. The condition of the real estate markets in which we operate tends to be cyclical and related to the condition of the economy in the U.S. and Japan as a whole and to the perceptions of investors of the overall economic outlook. Rising interest rates, declining demand for real estate or periods of general economic slowdown or recession have had a direct negative impact on the real estate market in the past and a recurrence of these conditions in the U.S. or a deeper recession in Japan could result in a reduction in our revenues. In addition, the economic condition of each local market where we operate may be dependent on one or more industries. Our ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions is limited. Certain significant expenditures, such as debt service costs, real estate taxes, and operating and maintenance costs are generally not reduced when market conditions are poor. These factors would impede us from responding quickly to changes in the performance of our investments and could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced in past years, are currently experiencing, and expect in the future to be negatively impacted by, periods of economic slowdown or recession, and corresponding declines in the demand for real estate and related services, within the markets in which we operate. The current economic recession has been extraordinary for its worldwide scope, its severity and its impact on major financial institutions, among other aspects. The current recession and the downturn in the real estate market have resulted in and/or may continue to result in: • a general decline in rents due to defaulting tenants or less favorable terms for renewed or new leases; • fewer purchases and sales of properties by clients, resulting in a decrease in property management fees and brokerage commissions; • a decline in actual and projected sale prices of our properties resulting in lower returns on the properties in which we have invested; • higher interest rates, higher loan costs, less desirable loan terms and a reduction in the availability of mortgage loans and mezzanine financing, all of which could increase costs and could limit our ability to acquire additional real estate assets; and • a decrease in the availability of lines of credit and other sources of capital used to purchase real estate investments and distressed notes. We could lose part or all of our investment in the real estate properties we have interests in, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There is the inherent possibility in all of our real estate investments that we could lose all or part of our investment. Real estate investments are generally illiquid, which may affect our ability to change our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. Moreover, in our joint ventures and funds that invest in 11 Table of Contents real estate, we may not be able to unilaterally decide the timing of the disposition of an investment, and as a result, may not control when and whether any gain will be realized or loss avoided. The value of our investments can also be diminished by: • civil unrest, acts of war and terrorism and acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses); • the impact of present or future legislation in the U.S. or in Japan (including environmental regulation, changes in laws concerning foreign ownership of property, changes in real estate tax rates, changes in zoning laws and laws requiring upgrades for disabled persons) and the cost of compliance with these types of legislation; and • liabilities relating to claims to the extent insurance is not available or is inadequate. We may be unsuccessful in renovating the development properties we acquire resulting in investment losses. Part of our investment strategy is to locate and acquire real estate assets that we believe are undervalued and to improve them to increase their resale value. We face risks arising from the acquisition of properties not yet fully developed or in need of substantial renovation or redevelopment, particularly the risk that we overestimate the value of the property and the risk that the cost or time to complete the renovation or redevelopment will exceed the budgeted amount. Such delays or cost overruns may arise from: • shortages of materials or skilled labor; • a change in the scope of the original project; • the difficulty in obtaining necessary zoning, land-use, environmental, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorization; • the discovery of structural or other latent defects in the property once construction has commenced; and • delays in obtaining tenants. Any failure to complete a redevelopment project in a timely manner and within budget or to sell or lease the project after completion could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operation and financial condition. We may not recover part or any of our investment in the mezzanine loans we make or acquire due to a number of factors including the fact that such loans are subordinate to the interests of senior lenders. We have made and expect to continue to make or acquire mezzanine loans, which are loans that are secured by real property, but are subject to the interests of lenders who are senior to us. These mezzanine loans are considered to involve a high degree of risk compared to other types of loans secured by real property. This is due to a variety of factors, including that a foreclosure by the holder of the senior loan could result in its mezzanine loan becoming uncollectible. Accordingly, we may not recover the full amount, or any, of our investment in mezzanine loans. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional term loans. Our operations in Japan subject us to additional social, political and economic risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries, which may materially adversely effect our business and results of operations. One of our strategies for the future is to continue our operations and investments in Asia, particularly in Japan. In furtherance of this strategy, we expect to commit additional resources to expand our sales and marketing activities in Japan and expand our service offerings and products in selected markets throughout Asia. 12 Table of Contents If we are successful in implementing this strategy, the increased scope of our international operations may lead to more volatile financial results and difficulties in managing our businesses. This volatility and difficulty could be caused by, among other things, the following: • restrictions and problems relating to the repatriation of profits; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; • laws restricting foreign companies from conducting business and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the impact of different business cycles and economic instability; • political instability and civil unrest; • greater difficulty in perfecting our security interests, collecting accounts receivable, foreclosing on security and protecting our interests as a creditor in bankruptcies in certain geographic regions; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • share ownership restrictions on foreign operations; • Japanese property and income taxes, tax withholdings and tariffs; and • geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world. The current economic downturn has significantly affected countries throughout Asia, including Japan. The worldwide recession has led to falling stock prices and asset values in Asia and reduced economic growth prospects in Asia. Several property markets in Asia have been affected by real estate developments that resulted in an oversupply of completed or partially completed space. Property prices have fallen along with prices of other investments and asset values. Our joint venture activities subject us to unique third-party risks, including risks that other participants may become bankrupt or take action contrary to our best interests. We have utilized joint ventures for large commercial investments and real estate developments. We plan to continue to acquire interests in additional limited and general partnerships, joint ventures and other enterprises, collectively referred to herein as “joint ventures”, formed to own or develop real property or interests in real property or note pools. It is our strategy in Japan to invest primarily through joint ventures. We have acquired and may acquire minority interests in joint ventures and we may also acquire interests as a passive investor without rights to actively participate in management of the joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures involve additional risks, including the possibility that the other participants may become bankrupt or have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with ours, that we will not have the right or power to direct the management and policies of the joint ventures and that other participants may take action contrary to our instructions or requests and against our policies and objectives. Should a participant in a material joint venture act contrary to our interest, it could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we will continue these investments, or that we can identify suitable joint venture partners and form new joint ventures in the future. We purchase distressed notes that have a higher risk of default and delinquencies than newly originated loans and as a result, we may lose part or all of our investment in such notes. We may purchase notes that are unsecured or secured by real or personal property. These notes are generally non-performing or sub-performing, and often are in default at the time of purchase. In general, the distressed notes we acquire are highly speculative investments and have a greater than normal risk of future defaults and delinquencies as compared to newly originated loans. Returns on loan investments depend on the borrower’s 13 Table of Contents ability to make required payments or, in the event of default, our security interests, if any, and our ability to foreclose and liquidate whatever property may be securing the note. We cannot be sure that we will be able to collect on a defaulted loan or foreclose on security successfully or in a timely fashion. There may also be instances when we are able to acquire title to an underlying property and sell it, but not make a profit on its investment. We may not be successful in competing with companies in the real estate services and investment industry, some of which may have substantially greater resources than we do. Real estate services and investment businesses are highly competitive. Our principal competitors include both large multinational companies and national and regional firms, such as Jones Lang LaSalle, Inc. and CB Richard Ellis, Inc. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and a broader global presence than we do. We compete with companies in the U.S., and to a limited extent, in Japan, with respect to: • selling commercial and residential properties on behalf of customers through brokerage and auction services; • leasing and property management, including construction and engineering services; • purchasing commercial and residential properties, as well as undeveloped land for our own account; and • acquiring secured and unsecured loans. Our property management operations must compete with a growing number of national firms seeking to expand market share. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively, maintain current fee levels or arrangements, continue to purchase investment property profitably or avoid increased competition. If we are unable to maintain or develop new client relationships, our property management business and financial condition could be substantially impaired. We are highly dependent on long-term client relationships and on revenues received for services under various property management agreements with third-party owners and related parties. A considerable amount of our revenues are derived from fees related to these agreements. The majority of our property management agreements are cancelable prior to their expiration by the client for any reason on as little as 30 to 60 days’ notice. These contracts also may not be renewed when their respective terms expire. If we fail to maintain existing relationships, fail to develop and maintain new client relationships or otherwise lose a substantial number of management agreements, we could experience a material adverse change in our business, financial condition and results of operations. Decreases in the performance of the properties we manage are likely to result in a decline in the amount of property management fees and leasing commissions we generate. Our property management fees are generally structured as a percentage of the revenues generated by the properties that we manage. Similarly, our leasing commissions typically are based on the value of the lease commitments. As a result, our revenues are adversely affected by decreases in the performance of the properties we manage and declines in rental value. Property performance will depend upon, among other things, our ability to control operating expenses (some of which are beyond our control), and financial conditions generally and in the specific areas where properties are located and the condition of the real estate market generally. If the performance or rental values of the properties we manage decline, the management fees and leasing commissions we derive from such properties could be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our leasing activities are contingent upon various factors including tenant occupancy and rental rates, which if adversely affected, could cause our operating results to suffer. A significant portion of our property management business involves facilitating the leasing of commercial space. In certain areas of operation, there may be inadequate commercial space to meet demand and there is a potential for a decline in the number of overall lease and brokerage transactions. In areas where the supply of commercial space exceeds demand, we may not be able to renew leases or obtain new tenants for our owned and managed rental properties as leases expire. Moreover, the terms of new leases and renewals (including renovation costs or costs of concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than current leases. Our revenues may be adversely affected by the failure to promptly find tenants for substantial amounts of vacant space, if rental rates on new or renewal leases are significantly lower than expected, or if reserves for costs of re-leasing prove inadequate. We cannot be sure that we can continue to lease properties for our clients and for our own account in a profitable manner. Our ability to lease properties also depends on: • the attractiveness of the properties to tenants; • competition from other available space; • our ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance and to pay increased operating expenses which may not be passed through to tenants; • the availability of capital to periodically renovate, repair and maintain the properties, as well as for other operating expenses; and • the existence of potential tenants desiring to lease the properties. If we are unable to identify, acquire and integrate suitable acquisition targets, our future growth will be impeded. Acquisitions and expansion have been, and will continue to be, a significant component of our growth strategy for the future. While maintaining our existing business lines, we intend to continue to pursue a sustained growth strategy by increasing revenues from existing clients, expanding the breadth of our service offerings, seeking selective co-investment opportunities and pursuing strategic acquisitions. Our ability to manage our growth will require us to effectively integrate new acquisitions into our existing operations while managing development of principal properties. We expect that significant growth in several business lines occurring simultaneously will place substantial demands on our managerial, administrative, operational and financial resources. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully manage all factors necessary for a successful expansion of our business. Moreover, our strategy of growth depends on the existence of and our ability to identify attractive and synergistic acquisition targets. The unavailability of suitable acquisition targets, or our inability to find them, may result in a decline in business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent upon the economy and real estate market in California which has recently experienced a significant downturn and is vulnerable to future decline. We have a high concentration of our business activities in California. Consequently, our business, results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon general trends in the California economy and real estate market. The California economy has experienced a significant downturn in the current recession and a sustained decline in the value of California real estate. Real estate market declines in California have become so severe that the market value of a number of properties securing loans has become significantly less than the outstanding balances of those loans. Real estate market declines may negatively affect our ability to sell property at a profit. In addition, California historically has been vulnerable to certain natural disaster risks, such as earthquakes, floods, wild fires and erosion-caused mudslides. The existence of adverse economic conditions or the occurrence of natural disasters in California could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our auction services business has historically been countercyclical and, as a result, our operating results may be adversely affected when general economic conditions are improving. Our results of operations are dependent on the performance of our auction services group, which historically has been countercyclical. Our auction services group has recently experienced an increase in revenues due to, among other things, the substantial increase in the number of foreclosures stemming from the current economic crisis. Improvements in general economic conditions may cause auction service revenues to decrease, which could cause a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We own real estate properties located in Hawaii, which subjects us to unique risks relating to, among other things, the current recession in Hawaii, Hawaii’s economic dependence on fluctuating tourism, the isolated location of Hawaii and the potential for natural disasters. We conduct operations and own properties in Hawaii. Consequently, our business, results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon and affected by general trends in the Hawaiian economy and real estate market. The Hawaiian economy has experienced a significant downturn in the current recession and a sustained decline in the value of Hawaiian real estate. Real estate market declines may negatively affect our ability to sell property at a profit. In addition, Hawaii’s economy is largely dependent upon tourism, which is subject to fluctuation and has recently experienced a significant drop. Hawaii historically has also been vulnerable to certain natural disaster risks, such as tsunamis, hurricanes and earthquakes, which could cause damage to properties owned by us or property values to decline in general. Hawaii’s remote and isolated location also may create additional operational costs and expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We have certain obligations in connection with our real estate brokerage services which could subject us to liability in the event litigation is initiated against us for an alleged breach of any such obligation. As a licensed real estate broker, we and our licensed employees are subject to certain statutory due diligence, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us or our employees to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties they brokered or managed. In addition, we may become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales claiming that we did not fulfill our statutory obligations as a broker. We may become subject to claims for construction defects or other similar actions in connection with the performance of our property management services. In our property management capacity, we hire and supervise third-party contractors to provide construction and engineering services for our properties. While our role is limited to that of a supervisor, we cannot be sure that we will not be subjected to claims for construction defects or other similar actions. Adverse outcomes of property management litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our properties may subject us to potential environmental liability. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances and may be liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by governmental entities or third parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws typically impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances, even when the contaminants were associated with previous owners or operators. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to properly remediate those substances, may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. The presence of contamination at a property can impair the value of the property even if the contamination is migrating onto 16 Table of Contents the property from an adjoining property. Additionally, the owner of a site may be subject to claims by parties who have no relation to the property based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. In connection with the direct or indirect ownership, operation, management and development of real properties, we may be considered an owner or operator of those properties or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. Therefore, we may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs. Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances also govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos-containing materials during construction, remodeling, renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injuries associated with asbestos-containing materials. We may be potentially liable for those costs for properties that we own. In the past, we have been required to remove asbestos from certain buildings that we own. There can be no assurance that in the future we will not be required to remove asbestos from our buildings or incur other substantial costs of environmental remediation. Before consummating the acquisition of a particular piece of property, it is our policy to retain independent environmental consultants to conduct a thorough environmental review of the property to check for contaminants, including performing a Phase I environmental review. These assessments have included, among other things, a visual inspection of the properties and the surrounding area and a review of relevant federal, state and historical documents. To date, the assessments we have had done have not revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations as a whole, nor are we aware of any material environmental liability of the types described. Nevertheless, it is possible that the assessments we commissioned do not reveal all environmental liabilities or that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are currently unaware. There can be no assurance that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability or that the current environmental condition of our properties will not be affected by tenants, by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of those properties, or by unrelated third parties. We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and are not otherwise aware of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances in connection with any of our properties. There can be no assurance that federal, state and local agencies or private plaintiffs will not bring these types of actions in the future, or that those actions, if adversely resolved, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur unanticipated expenses relating to laws benefiting disabled persons. The Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA, generally requires that public accommodations such as hotels and office buildings be accessible to disabled people. We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA. If, however, our properties are not in compliance with the ADA, the U.S. federal government could fine us or private litigants could be awarded money damages. If we are required to make substantial alterations to one or more of our properties, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may incur significant costs complying with laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our properties and operations. The properties in our portfolio and our operations are subject to various covenants and federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Such laws and regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to 17 Table of Contents acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic, asbestos-cleanup or hazardous material abatement requirements. There can be no assurance that existing laws and regulations will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions or renovations, or that additional regulations will not be adopted that increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our failure to obtain required permits, licenses and zoning relief or to comply with applicable laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our property insurance coverages are limited and any uninsured losses could cause us to lose part or all of our investment in our insured properties. We carry comprehensive general liability coverage and umbrella coverage on all of our properties with limits of liability which we deem adequate and appropriate under the circumstances (subject to deductibles) to insure against liability claims and provide for the cost of legal defense. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses that may be either uninsurable, or that are not generally insured because it is not economically feasible to insure against those losses. Should any uninsured loss occur, we could lose our investment in, and anticipated revenues from, a property, which loss or losses could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Currently, we also insure some of our properties for loss caused by earthquake in levels we deem appropriate and, where we believe necessary, for loss caused by flood. We cannot be sure that the occurrence of an earthquake, flood or other natural disaster will not have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company If we are unable to raise additional debt and equity capital, our results of operations could suffer. We depend upon third-party equity and debt financings to acquire properties through our investment business, which is a key driver of future growth. We estimate that in the next 12 to 18 months our acquisition plan will require between approximately $650 million and $1.3 billion in third-party equity and between approximately $1.3 billion and $2.6 billion in third-party debt. We expect to obtain debt financing from seller financing, the assumption of existing loans, government agencies and financial institutions. We expect to obtain equity financing from separate account investors and fund investors, which include pension funds, family offices, financial institutions, endowments and money managers. Our access to capital funding is uncertain. The current global economic crisis has resulted in a severe tightening of the credit markets as well as other sources of capital. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us could jeopardize the future success of our business. The loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our continued success is dependent to a significant degree upon the efforts of our senior executives, who have each been essential to our business. Certain of our executives have employment contracts with us that are renewable annually. The departure of all or any of our executives for whatever reason or the inability of all or any of them to continue to serve in their present capacities or our inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our executives have built highly regarded reputations in the real estate industry. Our executives attract business opportunities and assist both in negotiations with lenders and potential joint venture partners and in the representation of large and institutional clients. If we lost their services, our relationships with lenders, joint ventures and clients would diminish significantly. In addition, certain of our officers have strong regional reputations and they aid in attracting and identifying opportunities and negotiating for us and on behalf of our clients. In particular, we view the establishment and maintenance of strong relationships through certain officers as critical to our success in the Japanese market. As we continue to grow, our success will be largely dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified 18 Table of Contents personnel in all areas of business. We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to support or keep pace with planned growth. Our revenues and earnings may be materially and adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to our international operations. Our revenues from non-U.S. operations have been primarily denominated in the local currency where the associated revenues were earned. Thus, we may experience significant fluctuations in revenues and earnings because of corresponding fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. To date, our foreign currency exposure has been limited to the Japanese Yen. Due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we will be subject and the volatility of currency exchange rates, there can be no assurance that we will not experience currency losses in the future, nor can we predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. Our management may decide to use currency hedging instruments from time to time including foreign currency forward contracts, purchased currency options (where applicable) and foreign currency borrowings. The economic risks associated with these hedging instruments include unexpected fluctuations in inflation rates, which could impact cash flow relative to paying down debt, and unexpected changes in our underlying net asset position. There can be no assurance that any hedging will be effective. Our operating results are subject to significant volatility from quarter to quarter as a result of the varied timing and magnitude of our strategic acquisitions and dispositions. We have experienced a fluctuation in our financial performance from quarter to quarter due in part to the significance of revenues from the sales of real estate on overall performance. The timing of purchases and sales of our real estate investments has varied, and will continue to vary, widely from quarter to quarter due to variability in market opportunities, changes in interest rates, and the overall demand for residential and commercial real estate, among other things. While these factors have contributed to us experiencing increased operating income and earnings in the fourth quarter in past years, there can be no assurance that we will continue to perform better in the fourth quarter. In addition, the timing and magnitude of brokerage commissions paid to us may vary widely from quarter to quarter depending upon overall activity in the general real estate market and the nature of our brokerage assignments, among other things. We have in the past and may continue in the future to incur significant amounts of debt to finance acquisitions, which could negatively affect our cash flows and subject our properties or other assets to the risk of foreclosure. We have historically financed new acquisitions and property purchases with cash derived from secured and unsecured loans and lines of credit. For instance, we typically purchase real property with loans secured by a mortgage on the property acquired. We anticipate continuing this trend. We do not have a policy limiting the amount of debt that we may incur. Accordingly, our management and board of directors have discretion to increase the amount of our outstanding debt at any time. We could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service costs that could adversely affect results of operations and increase the risk of default on debt. Much of our debt bears interest at variable rates. As a result, we are subject to fluctuating interest rates that may impact, adversely or otherwise, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that cash flow will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest, and the risk that existing indebtedness on our properties will not be able to be refinanced or that the terms of available new financing will not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we are unable to satisfy the obligations owed to any lender with a lien on one of our properties, the lender could foreclose on the real property or other assets securing the loan and we would lose that property or asset. The loss of any property or asset to foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our debt obligations impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and taking certain actions. Our debt obligations impose, and future debt obligations may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • repay indebtedness (including the notes) prior to stated maturities; • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our stock or make other distributions; • make acquisitions or investments; • create or incur liens; • transfer or sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • sell stock in our subsidiaries; • restrict dividends, distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries; and • otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. In addition, our senior secured and one of our unsecured credit facilities require us to maintain compliance with specified financial covenants. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. Acceleration of our other indebtedness could result in a default under the terms of the indenture governing the notes. We have guaranteed a number of loans in connection with various joint venture partnerships which may result in us being obligated to make substantial payments. We have provided guarantees associated with loans secured by assets held in various joint venture partnerships. The maximum potential amount of future payments (undiscounted) we could be required to make under the guarantees was approximately $35 million at December 31, 2009. The guarantees expire by the year end of 2011 and our performance under the guarantees would be required to the extent there is a shortfall in liquidation between the principal amount of the loan and the net sales proceeds of the property. If we were to become obligated to perform on these guarantees, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We may incur expenses associated with defending law suits filed by former holders of Kennedy-Wilson, Inc. stock. On November 13, 2009, our wholly owned subsidiary, KW Merger Sub Corp., merged with and into Kennedy-Wilson, Inc. Prior to the merger, a small percentage of Kennedy-Wilson, Inc.’s outstanding common stock was owned by holders who were not known to our management. If one or more of these holders were to bring a claim alleging that members of Kennedy-Wilson, Inc.’s board of directors breached their fiduciary duties in connection with approving the merger, we would incur costs defending and/or settling such claim. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our directors and officers and their affiliates are significant stockholders, which makes it possible for them to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to stockholders for approval and which influence may be in conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. As of November 14, 2009, our directors and executive officers and their respective affiliates owned an aggregate of approximately 51.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our directors and executive officers and their respective affiliates also hold warrants which, if exercised, will give them greater control of us. These stockholders will have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted for stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. In addition, such influence by one or more of these affiliates could have the effect of discouraging others from attempting to purchase or take us over and/or reducing the market price offered for our common stock in such an event. We may issue additional equity securities which may dilute your interest in us. In order to expand our business, we may consider offering and issuing additional equity or equity-based securities. Holders of our securities may experience a dilution in the net tangible book value per share held by them if this occurs. The number of shares that we may issue for cash without stockholder approval will be limited by the rules of the American Stock Exchange or other exchange on which our securities are listed. However, there are generally exceptions which allow companies to issue a limited number of equity securities without stockholder approval which would dilute your ownership. The ownership interest of our current stockholders will be substantially diluted if the Guardian Note is converted. In connection with our merger with Kennedy-Wilson, Inc., a convertible subordinated note with a principal amount of $30 million that was issued by Kennedy-Wilson, Inc. to Guardian Life Insurance Company of America (“Guardian”) in November 2008 (the “Guardian Note”) became convertible into shares of our common stock pursuant to the terms of the Guardian Note. The Guardian Note bears interest at a fixed rate of 7% payable quarterly and the outstanding balance of the Guardian Note is due on November 3, 2018. Guardian has the option to convert, in whole or in part, the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest of the Guardian Note into common stock at a conversion price of $9.86 per share any time prior to May 3, 2017. As of February 3, 2010, the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest of the Guardian Note were $30 million and $0, respectively. As of February 3, 2010 the estimated number of shares of common stock into which the Guardian Note will be convertible is 3,042,446. To the extent the Guardian Note is converted, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares of common stock eligible for resale into the public market. Sales of such shares of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If the benefits of our merger with Kennedy-Wilson, Inc. do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the merger if: • we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; or • the effect of the merger on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, our stockholders may experience a loss as a result of a decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, a decline in the market price of our common stock could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. 21 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may be volatile. The price of our common stock may be volatile due to factors such as: • changes in real estate prices; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of our publicly held competitors; • mergers and strategic alliances among any real estate companies; • market conditions in the industry; • changes in government regulation and taxes; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • investor sentiment toward the stock of real estate companies in general; • announcements concerning us or our competitors; and • the general state of the securities markets. Kennedy-Wilson, Inc. has not recently operated as a “reporting company.” Fulfilling our obligations as a “reporting company” going forward will be expensive and time consuming. Kennedy-Wilson, Inc. has not been a public reporting company since 2004 and since that time has not been required to document and assess the effectiveness of its internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although we have maintained disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required under the federal securities laws with respect to our activities, Kennedy-Wilson, Inc. has not been required to establish and maintain such disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting which are required with respect to a public company with substantial operations. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, our management will be required to implement additional corporate governance practices and to adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations will require significant time and resources from our management, finance and accounting staff and will significantly increase our legal, insurance and financial compliance costs. As a result of the increased costs associated with being a “reporting company,” Kennedy-Wilson, Inc.’s operating income as a percentage of revenue is likely to be lower. Our common stock may be delisted, which could limit your ability to trade our common stock and subject us to additional trading restrictions. As of March 15, 2010, our common stock and warrants were listed on NYSE AMEX, a national securities exchange. Our common stock has been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange and we expect that our common stock will commence trading on the New York Stock Exchange on or about March 19, 2010. We cannot assure you that our common stock will continue to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the future. If the New York Stock Exchange delists our common stock from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; • a decreased ability for us to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and • limited liquidity for our stockholders due to thin trading. Our warrants currently do not have a sufficient number of warrantholders to meet applicable continued listing requirements and are expected to be quoted on the Pink Sheets following the delisting from the NYSE 22 Table of Contents AMEX so long as market makers demonstrate an interest in trading in our warrants. No assurance can be given that the market makers will continue to make a market in our warrants. Our staggered board may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders and certain anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage a change in control. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for our board of directors to be divided into three classes, each of which generally serves for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at any annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since this “staggered board” would prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Additionally, certain provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, may, under certain circumstances, make it more difficult for a person who would be an “interested stockholder,” which is defined generally as a person with 15% or more of a corporation’s outstanding voting stock, to effect a “business combination” with the corporation for a three-year period. A “business combination” is defined generally as mergers, consolidations and certain other transactions, including sales, leases or other dispositions of assets with an aggregate market value equal to 10% or more of the aggregate market value of the corporation. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many stockholders. As a result, stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 