Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. You should read the section titled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” beginning on page 1 for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business If we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. Our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. Our index and analytics products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our software products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. As of November 30, 2010, throughout our businesses we utilized in a variety of ways certain data provided to us by over 190 data sources, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. If the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. Many of these data suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. For example, ISS relies on a data feed agreement with Broadridge Financial Solutions which allows for a large number of proxy ballots to be received, and proxy votes to be processed, electronically, minimizing the manual aspects of the proxy voting process and limiting the risk of error inherent in manual processes. If the data feed agreement with Broadridge was terminated, we would have to incur significant expenses in order to input our clients’ voting instructions directly into Broadridge’s proprietary electronic voting systems and our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Since ISS also competes with Broadridge in some markets with respect to providing certain aspects of proxy voting services, Broadridge may have an incentive to not renew ISS’ data feed agreement when its initial term expires in 2011 or to offer renewal terms which we may deem unreasonable. From time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. Termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider’s information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. If our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. Such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some data suppliers have sought and others may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. If we are unable to renegotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. 20 Table of Contents Any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, including the Internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. We rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls to protect the confidentiality of client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, unauthorized disclosure or misappropriation of client data could occur. Such unauthorized disclosure or misappropriation could damage our reputation and/or result in claims against us by our clients and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to the composition of our indices. If our information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We change the composition of our indices from time to time. We believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our indices can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indices. Our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. We have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes to the composition of our indices. If our information barrier procedures fail and we inadvertently disclose, or an individual deliberately misuses, material non-public information about a change to one of our indices, our reputation may suffer. Clients’ loss of trust and confidence in our information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list exchange traded funds or other financial products based on our indices only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have reasonable information barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our indices. If an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our indices, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any perceived conflicts of interest resulting from providing products and services to institutional investors in addition to proxy voting recommendations, or providing products and services to corporations which are the subject of our proxy recommendations or other products and services could harm our reputation and business. Institutional clients of our Governance business rely on ISS to provide them with informed proxy vote recommendations, benchmark proxy voting guidelines and unbiased analyses of companies’ environmental, social and governance attributes. The institutional clients of both our Performance and Risk and Governance businesses, particularly hedge funds and more active institutional investors, may have material economic and other interests in the corporations on which ISS provides proxy analyses and ratings or which are the subject of our financial research and analysis products and services. In some cases these institutional clients pay us a significant amount of money for our Performance and Risk products and services and, accordingly, there may be a perception that we might advocate a particular position or provide research that supports a particular conclusion with respect to a corporation in order to satisfy the unique economic or other interests of a particular institutional client. As a result, institutional clients, competitors and other market participants could raise questions about our ability to provide unbiased services, which could harm our reputation. 21 Table of Contents Through our ISS Corporate Services subsidiary, we provide products and services to corporate clients who use these services to learn about and improve their corporate governance practices. Accordingly, there is a potential conflict of interest between the services we provide to institutional clients and the services, including our Compensation Advisory Services, provided to clients of the ISS Corporate Services subsidiary. For example, when we provide corporate governance services to a corporate client and at the same time provide proxy vote recommendations to institutional clients regarding that corporation’s proxy items, there may be a perception that the ISS team providing research to our institutional clients may treat that corporation more favorably due to its use of our services. We have implemented an information barrier and other procedures designed to prevent any potential conflict of interest from impacting the ability of our research team to provide unbiased analyses. The conflict management safeguards that we have implemented may not be adequate to manage these apparent conflicts of interest, and clients or competitors may question the integrity of our services. In the event that we fail to adequately manage perceived conflicts of interest, we could incur reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. Third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and pending third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We consider many aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. Despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. There is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. Even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we would be successful. Furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. • Trademarks and Service Marks—We have registered “MSCI”, “Barra” and “RiskMetrics” as trademarks or service marks in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries. We have also registered other marks for certain products and services in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries. When we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. Furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. • Patents—We currently hold 19 U.S. and foreign patents. We currently have 8 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. Patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. There can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. • Copyrights—We believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. If a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Confidentiality and Trade Secrets—Our license agreements limit our clients’ right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. It is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients 22 Table of Contents who could freely obtain a copy of the data. We also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure agreements with our employees. However, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure agreement and reveals a trade secret, we could lose the trade secret protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our proprietary information. Additionally, the enforceability of our license and non-disclosure agreements and the remedies available to us in the event of a breach vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. • License Agreements—Our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a nontransferable license agreement signed by the client. We also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the Internet under on-line licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. The enforceability of on-line licenses and terms of use has not been conclusively determined by the courts. There can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. • Third-Party Litigation—There is currently third-party litigation on appeal in the U.S. regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether companies may issue and trade investment products based on a publicly-available index without the need for permission from (or payment to) the index owner. In July 2010, the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois found that the trading of index options on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (“DJIA”) and the S&P 500 index by the International Stock Exchange (“ISE”) without a license would misappropriate the index providers’ rights in their indexes. The ISE was permanently restrained and enjoined from listing or providing an exchange market for the trading of DJIA and/or S&P 500 index options and the Options Clearing Corporation was permanently restrained and enjoined from participating in the facilitation of an ISE index option based upon the DJIA and/or S&P 500 and from issuing, clearing or settling the exercise of such DJIA and/or S&P 500 index options. This decision is now under appeal. In another relevant case, in 2009, the German Federal Supreme Court concluded that the owner of a trademark who publishes an index generally available to all market participants cannot prohibit, on the basis of German trademark law, a third party from referring to the index as a reference value in option warrants issued by the third party if the trademark is used for informational and factual purposes and does not imply that a relationship exists with the trademark owner. If other courts in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indices, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. It might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media. Third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have in recent years increasingly pursued patent protection for their technologies and business methods. If any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model or software application, we could be sued for infringement. Furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. From time to time, such complaints are filed by or we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. The number of these claims may grow. We have made and expect to continue making expenditures related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. 23 Table of Contents Responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. We may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. We may be required to pay damages, required to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or required to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. There can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. We may also be called upon to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. Therefore, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. We rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. We monitor our use of open source code to attempt to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. The terms of many open source code licenses, however, are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by U.S. courts. Accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) proprietary code that links to certain open source code modules, to re-engineer our products or systems or to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. Any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. We depend on the ability of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. The third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. We also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. Despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use, resulting in increased software or data acquisition costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. In addition, our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. Some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. Such errors can exist at any point in a product’s life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. We continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. Despite internal testing and testing by current and potential clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. If we detect any errors before we release a product, we might have to delay the product release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. We might not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide 24 Table of Contents enhancements to correct such errors. Errors may occur in our products that could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third-party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations, or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. Furthermore, our clients may use our products together with their own software, data or products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our products do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, cause significant client relations problems or result in legal claims against us. The realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. To remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industry in which we operate and the impact of technological change on our products, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance existing products and services, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. This requires accurate anticipation of clients’ changing needs and emerging investment trends. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients’ needs and generate the revenues required to provide the desired results. If, among other things, we fail to accurately anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our clients, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated or if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also see “—If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations” above. Transitioning clients to enhanced products and services presents execution risks and challenges. If we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face competition across all markets for our products. Our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. Our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. In addition, barriers to entry may be low in many cases, including for single-purpose product companies. The Internet as a distribution channel has allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. Low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or equity indices. Financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients, including those arising from the financial crisis, may lead certain clients to seek products at a lower cost than what we provide. These competitive pressures may also result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. See “Part I.—Item 1. Business—Our Competition” above. 25 Table of Contents Our business is dependent on the financial viability of our clients. If our clients are negatively impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets and are forced to shut-down or consolidate, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Most of our clients are in the financial services industry. For example, asset managers accounted for 52.4% and 66.6% of our revenues as of November 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The global financial crisis led to the closure or consolidation of a number of our clients, including asset manager, broker-dealer and hedge fund clients. Such events impacted our financial results, including our Run Rates and Aggregate and Core Retention Rates, in 2009 and 2010 and may continue to do so in the near term. Furthermore, if such trends continue, we may not be able to generate future growth and demand for our products may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a result of the global financial crisis, the U.S. Congress undertook major financial reform which led to the enactment, on July 21, 2010, of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a significant impact on many aspects of the way in which the financial services industry conducts business and will impose substantial new regulation on, and regulatory oversight of, a wide variety of financial services institutions. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act will likely have a material impact on many of our clients and could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business, and results of operations. If our clients do not remain financially viable or if the negative conditions in the financial markets persist or worsen, we may be forced to increase our provisions for bad debts, which could adversely affect our profitability. Consolidation within our target markets may affect our business. Consolidation in the financial services industry could reduce our existing client base and the number of potential clients. For example, the recent global financial crisis led to the closure or merger of a number of our clients, including broker-dealer, asset manager and hedge fund clients. If consolidation continues, it may negatively impact our ability to generate future growth and may reduce demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is dependent on our clients’ continued investment in equity securities. If our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring portfolios. To the extent our clients’ significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, the demand for equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our revenues and earnings are affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. Clients that use our indices as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as exchange traded funds and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the investment product’s assets. These asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. They were 16.0%, 16.2% and 16.7% of revenues for the years ended November 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These asset-based fees accounted for 45.2%, 43.9% and 48.0% of the revenues from our ten largest clients in the fiscal years ended November 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Volatile capital markets, such as those witnessed in 2009 and the second half of 2008 as well as changing investment styles, may influence an investor’s decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. For example, as of November 30, 2010, the month-end value of assets in ETFs linked to MSCI equity indices was $311.0 billion, which was 32.8% higher than the value of such assets as of November 30, 2009, and the value of such assets at November 30, 2009 was 96.8% higher than the value of such assets as of November 30, 2008. 26 Table of Contents A portion of our business is dependent on our clients continuing to measure the performance of their equity investments against equity benchmarks. If our clients discontinue use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. If clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our indices could decrease. Any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. A portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenues streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients. Our clients may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. As the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. Additionally, as competition among our clients increases, they may have to lower the fees they charge to their clients, which could cause them to try to decrease our fees correspondingly or otherwise lead to a reduction of our fees in certain cases. For example, competition is intense and increasing among our clients that provide exchange traded funds. The fees they charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these exchange traded fund managers. Additionally, clients that have licensed our indices to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indices and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-MSCI index, in which case our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. Cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For the fiscal years ended November 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 27.4%, 27.3% and 28.6% of our total revenues, respectively. If we fail to obtain a significant number of new clients or if one of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected. For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2010, our largest client organization by revenue, BlackRock, Inc. and affiliates (“BlackRock”), accounted for 9.9% our total revenues. For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2010, approximately 82.9% of the revenue from BlackRock came from fees based on the assets in BlackRock’s exchange traded funds based on MSCI indices. Cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our primary commercial model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at a specified location and by a given number of users or for a certain volume of products or services during that annual period. For most of our products, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. A disproportionately high percentage of contract value in the Governance business comes up for renewal in December. While we believe the annual, recurring subscription model supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our clients may develop internally certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. For example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. To the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the Internet, and this trend may continue. The availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. Weak economic conditions also can result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. To the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have experienced significant growth since we began operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. Among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. See “—We must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients’ changing needs, market changes and technological developments” above, “—We are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise” below, “Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 1.—Business.” Any failure to continue to grow our business and maintain profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. We must plan and manage our growth effectively to increase revenue and maintain profitability. Our growth, including in emerging market centers, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. There can also be no assurance that, if we continue to grow internally or by way of acquisitions, management will be effective in attracting, training and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing growth. Any failure to effectively manage growth or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “—We must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients’ changing needs, market changes and technological developments” above, “—We are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise” below, “—Risks Related to the Acquisition of RiskMetrics Group, Inc. “ below, “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 1—Business.” 28 Table of Contents There is considerable risk embedded in growth through acquisitions, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. A principal element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: • incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; • failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; • failure to achieve assumed synergies; • insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses; • increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; • dilution of your common stock; • loss of key personnel; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities; and • inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. In the event that we experience a high level of acquisition related activity within a limited period of time the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See “—Risks Related to the Acquisition of RiskMetrics Group, Inc.” below. Our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. We are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. Exchange rate movements can impact the U.S. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. A significant percentage of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For all operations outside the United States where the Company has designated the local non-U.S. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates. For these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the U.S. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders’ equity. In addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating expense (income). Revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 16.0% and 16.3% of operating revenues for the fiscal years ended November 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. While our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in U.S. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product’s assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the U.S. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. In addition, declines in such currencies against the U.S. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. 29 Table of Contents We generally invoice our clients in U.S. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in Euros, British Pounds, Japanese Yen and a limited number of other non-U.S. dollar currencies. For the fiscal years ended November 30, 2010 and 2009, approximately 12.8% and 12.3%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than U.S. dollars. For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2010, 55.9% of our foreign currency revenues were in Euros, 28.2% were in Japanese Yen and 10.3% were in British Pounds. For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2009, 46.2% of our foreign currency revenues were in Euros, 39.4% were in Japanese Yen and 12.6% were in British Pounds. We are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. Approximately 34.2% and 35.0% of our operating expenses for the fiscal years ended November 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in British Pounds, Swiss Francs, Hong Kong Dollars, Hungarian Forints, Euros, Indian Rupees and Japanese Yen. Expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the U.S. We have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, a loss resulted from the devaluation of the value of the functional currency. As a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $3.0 million for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2010. These losses on foreign currency exchange were primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar in the last six months of the fiscal year. We do not currently hedge the foreign exchange risk of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. To the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. It is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients’ businesses. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. Some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could impact their demand for our products and services. There can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Investment Advisers Act. Except with respect to certain products provided by ISS and certain of its subsidiaries, we believe that our products do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”). Future developments in our product line or changes to the current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. It is possible that in addition to ISS, other entities in our corporate family may be required to become registered as an investment adviser under the Advisers Act or similar laws in states or foreign jurisdictions. The Advisers Act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. We may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. In addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. Compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. 30 Table of Contents • Data Privacy Legislation. Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. There could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing, data sales and business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues. Restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting some kinds of data could materially increase. It is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs. • Proposed Regulation for Fiduciaries. On October 21, 2010, the U.S. Department of Labor issued a proposed regulation that would expand the definition of a fiduciary to any entity that provides investment advice to employee benefit plans for a fee or other compensation for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”). The proposed regulation also provides that consultants that are investment advisers as defined in the Advisers Act could be considered fiduciaries. If, as a result of being registered as an investment advisor with the SEC, ISS is deemed to be a fiduciary under ERISA, it could be subject to the rules and regulations thereunder, including those related to conflicts of interest and this could have an impact on the manner in which ISS and its affiliates conduct business. • Proposed Proxy Plumbing Regulations. On July 14, 2010, the SEC voted unanimously to issue for public comment a concept release focusing on a wide range of topics related to the U.S. proxy voting system. The release is organized around, and seeks comment on, three general topics: (1) the accuracy, transparency and efficiency of the proxy voting system; (2) communications with shareholders and shareholder participation in voting; and (3) the relationship between voting power and economic interest, including questions about proxy advisory firms, such as ISS, and concerns raised by corporate issuers and other observers about the role, power and manner in which proxy advisory firms operate. The SEC may, but is not required, to engage in rulemaking with respect to the various issues and questions raised in the concept release. At this point we are unable to determine whether the SEC will pursue rulemaking on these matters and, if so, the extent to which any rule might impact our businesses, whether the process by which we provide proxy research and voting services to clients, the manner in which ISS operates as a proxy advisory firm or otherwise. However, as with any regulatory change, we may have to change business practices and operational procedures and incur costs in response to possible modifications to the proxy system that could result from any rulemaking that stems from the concept release. We may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. Our products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. Our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products. However, these provisions have certain exceptions and could be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. Use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts. Any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. In addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 31 Table of Contents ISS’ products and services support the proxy voting processes of clients. Consequently, we may be exposed to potential liability claims brought by ISS’ clients or third parties as a result of the operational failure of our products and services. ISS’ products and services support the proxy voting processes of clients. If ISS were to fail to provide the services provided for in its client contracts, we could be required to provide credits to its clients and in some cases we may be subject to contractual penalties. ISS’ client agreements generally have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by its clients or other third parties based on the operational failure of its products and services. However, these provisions could be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. Any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, could involve a significant commitment of management, personnel, financial and other resources. Our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In connection with our acquisition of RiskMetrics, on June 1, 2010, we entered into a senior secured credit agreement, which is comprised of (i) a 1,275.0 million six-year term loan facility and (ii) a $100.0 million five-year revolving credit facility (“New Credit Facility”). See “Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The New Credit Facility replaced our senior credit facility of $70.9 million and the senior secured facilities of RiskMetrics of $206.7 million outstanding as of May 31, 2010. As of November 30, 2010, we had $1,268.6 million of indebtedness under the New Credit Facility ($56.0 million in current maturities and $1,212.6 million in long term debt), $226.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $73.9 million in short-term investments. During first quarter 2011, we will be required to make a payment under the excess cash flow provision of the New Credit Facility of approximately $56.0 million. The New Credit Facility is guaranteed on a senior secured basis by each of our direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and secured by a valid and perfected first priority lien and security interest in substantially all of the shares of the capital stock of our present and future domestic subsidiaries and up to 65% of the shares of capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries, substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries’ present and future property and assets and the proceeds thereof. In addition, the New Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing future subsidiaries’ abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make or hold investments; make acquisitions, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm’s length basis; and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. The New Credit Facility also requires us and our subsidiaries to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with the following financial ratios on a consolidated basis: (1) the maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in the New Credit Facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall not exceed (a) 4.0:1.00 through February 28, 2011, (b) 3.75:1.00 from March 1, 2011 through May 31, 2011, (c) 3.50:1.00 from June 1, 2011 through August 31, 2011, (d) 3.25:1.00 from September 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 and (e) 2.75:1.00 thereafter; and (2) the minimum interest coverage ratio (as defined in the New Credit Facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall be at least (a) 4.50:1.00 through February 28, 2011 and (b) 5.00:1.00 thereafter. On December 10, 2010, our Board of Directors approved a change in our fiscal year end from November 30th to December 31st, commencing with the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2011. The measurement periods for compliance with the financial ratios will be adjusted accordingly. In addition, our New Credit Facility contains the following affirmative covenants, among others: periodic delivery of financial statements, budgets and officer’s certificates; payment of other obligations; compliance with laws and regulations; payment of taxes and other material obligations; maintenance of property and insurance; performance of material leases; right of the lenders to inspect property, books and records; notices of defaults and other material events; and maintenance of books and records. 32 Table of Contents In addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. Our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic consequences; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow and proceeds of any additional equity issuances to payments of our indebtedness; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital and capital expenditures; limit our ability to consummate acquisitions; and increase our interest expense. Because the New Credit Facility resulted in a substantial increase in our level of indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio following the completion of the acquisition in comparison to periods prior to the acquisition, the potential for the occurrence of the consequences described in the preceding sentence could be increased compared to periods prior to the acquisition. We are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. Accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other technical personnel. Although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, the loss of a group of our key professional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. Competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Additionally, in connection with our IPO, we issued founders grants to some of our employees and as these awards vest (the final tranche representing 25% of the total award will vest in November 2011) their effectiveness as a retention tool diminishes. If the equity incentive plans that we currently have in place do not adequately compensate our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel our products may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the Internet, and any failures or disruptions may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. We depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems and the Internet. Heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, national disasters, power loss or computer viruses could cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt their availability for periods of time. Our ability to effectively use the Internet may be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party Internet providers or increased government regulation. If disruptions, failures or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the Internet occur, our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients may be materially and adversely affected. Certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where we or our clients are located, and other events. We also depend on accessible office facilities for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. There is no assurance that the business continuity plans that we have sufficiently cover or reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events. 33 Table of Contents Such events could also have a material adverse effect on our clients. For example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the World Trade Center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. In addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from New York-based suppliers was delayed. The grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. During the resulting temporary closure of the U.S. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. These types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. As we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. We have established and intend to further grow our presence in Mexico, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe and Central and South America. In the last few years, we have opened offices in Budapest, Dubai, Monterrey, Mumbai and Shanghai. A significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the United States and a number of those employees are located in emerging market centers. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our office and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. In order to penetrate markets outside of the United States, we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. Demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. Many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and corporate governance and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. If we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the United States. There can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. We may incur unanticipated costs in connection with establishing and maintaining offices in emerging market locations. Our plans call for us to continue to increase the proportion of our employees in emerging market locations. The cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income taxes, in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. 34 Table of Contents Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. To the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our statement of income for a particular future period. In addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. Changes in the legislative, regulatory and corporate environments in which ISS’ clients operate may adversely impact our financial results. ISS’ historical growth has been due, in large part, to increased regulatory requirements, highly visible corporate scandals, increased shareholder activism and corporate chief executive officers and boards of directors that are increasingly concerned about, and responsive to, shareholder concerns. To the extent that any of these trends change, the demand for ISS’ products and services could be reduced, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. To the extent these regulations change or are not extended to other markets, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. Our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our RiskMetrics acquisition could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. We have goodwill and intangible assets of $2,422.9 million recorded on our balance sheet as of November 30, 2010. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill which could be material to our results of operations. In addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. We have engaged in hedging transaction and may engage in other hedging transactions which involve risks that could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In July 2010, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate risk and to manage interest expense, and we may engage in similar transactions in the future. As of November 30, 2010, the interest rate swaps had an aggregate notional principal amount of $445.1 million and a fair value liability of $1.8 million. Our interest rate swaps effectively changed a portion of our variable-rate debt obligations pursuant to our credit facilities to fixed-rate debt obligations. Developing an effective strategy for movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. In addition, the counterparty to a derivate instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. Further, we may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivate instrument is terminated by us. Finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. As a result, our economic hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 35 Table of Contents The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. As a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. For example, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial conditions and the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with these rules and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. See “—Changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations” above. In connection with our IPO and separation from Morgan Stanley, we entered into agreements with Morgan Stanley where we agreed to indemnify Morgan Stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. Pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with Morgan Stanley relating to the ongoing provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify Morgan Stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. Such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our class A common stock, the price of our class A common stock could decline. The trading market for our class A common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. The price of our stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. The market price of our class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for you. For example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our class A common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indices as the basis of ETFs; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; • failure to produce or distribute our products; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive products; 36 Table of Contents • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in the U.S., foreign countries or both; • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • additions or departures of key personnel; • investors’ general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; and • changes in regulatory and other dynamics. In addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our class A common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our class A common stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class A common stock. This would include sales of our common stock underlying restricted shares of class A common stock and options to purchase shares of class A common stock granted in connection with our IPO and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plan. As of November 30, 2010, 119,522,043 shares of our class A common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In November 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the Securities Act the 12,500,000 shares of class A common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the MSCI Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan and the 500,000 shares of class A common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the Company or Morgan Stanley pursuant to the MSCI Independent Directors’ Equity Compensation Plan. As of November 30, 2010, we had issued 2,947,305 and 66,605 shares of class A common stock under the MSCI Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan and MSCI Independent Directors’ Equity Compensation Plan, respectively. In connection with the acquisition of RiskMetrics, we filed a registration statement registering under the Securities Act the 4,257,779 shares of MSCI class A common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to officers and certain employees of RiskMetrics pursuant to the RiskMetrics Group, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan, RiskMetrics Group, Inc. 2004 Stock Option Plan, Institutional Shareholder Services Holdings, Inc. Equity Incentive Plan and RiskMetrics Group, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (collectively, the “RMG Plans”). As of November 30, 2010, we had issued 1,037,836 shares of class A common stock under the RMG Plans. In June 2010, we also filed a registration statement assuming 3,060,090 shares available under the RiskMetrics Group, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan. Also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. The amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. 37 Table of Contents Provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our class A common stock. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our class A common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; • the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • the ability of our Board of Directors to make, alter or repeal our By-laws; and • the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. Generally, the amendment of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires approval by our Board of Directors and a majority vote of shareholders. Any amendment to our By-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our Board of Directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our Board of Directors. Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our Board of Directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the shares not owned by such person. These provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our class A common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your class A common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our class A common stock. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, including growth through acquisitions. The payment of any future dividends will be determined by the Board of Directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirements and other factors. Risks Related to the Acquisition of RiskMetrics Group, Inc. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger, which could adversely affect the value of our class A common stock. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining our business with RiskMetrics’ business. Our ability to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings is subject to certain risks including: 38 Table of Contents • our ability to successfully and cost effectively combine our business with RiskMetrics’ business; • whether the combined businesses will perform as expected; • the possibility that we paid more than the value we will derive from the acquisition; • the reduction of our cash available for operations and other uses, the increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired and the incurrence of indebtedness to finance the acquisition; and • the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of RiskMetrics. If we are not able to successfully combine our business with RiskMetrics’ business within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or take longer to realize than expected, we may not perform as expected and the price of our shares of common stock may be adversely affected. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or in unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs and an overall integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of RiskMetrics into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger so we perform as expected, include, among other things: • combining the companies’ sales, marketing, data, operations and research and development functions; • integrating the companies’ technologies, products and services; • identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; • harmonizing the companies’ operating practices, employee development and compensation programs, • internal controls and other policies, procedures and processes; • addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies; • consolidating the companies’ corporate, administrative and information technology infrastructure; • coordinating sales, distribution and marketing efforts; • managing the movement of certain positions to different locations, including certain of our offices outside the U.S.; • maintaining existing agreements with customers and suppliers and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers and suppliers; • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and • consolidating our offices with those of RiskMetrics that are currently in the same location. In addition, at times, the attention of certain members of our management and resources may be focused on the integration of the businesses of the two companies and diverted from day-to-day business operations, which may disrupt our business. Our business relationships, including client relationships, may be subject to disruption due to uncertainty associated with the merger. Parties with which we do business, including clients and suppliers, may experience uncertainty associated with the merger, including with respect to our current or future business relationships. Our business relationships may be subject to disruption as clients, suppliers and others may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on the businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of the combined business. 39 Table of Contents Our future results may suffer if we do not effectively manage RiskMetrics’ risk management platform and RiskMetrics’ other operations. We plan to continue to work on combining RiskMetrics’ risk management platform with our expertise in portfolio equity models and analytics to provide clients with the capability to understand risk across their entire investment processes. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this combination as well as RiskMetrics’ other businesses, including its corporate governance operation, which poses challenges for management, including challenges relating to the management and monitoring of new operations and the coordination of activities across a larger organization. We cannot assure you that it will be successful or that we will realize expected operational efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancement and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger. We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other key employees as a result of the merger. Uncertainty about the success of the integration process and the effect of the merger on employees may have an adverse effect on the combined business. This uncertainty may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the integration process, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined business. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration, financial incentives or a desire not to continue as employees of the combined business, we may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining replacements for departing employees, which could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. We will continue to incur restructuring and integration-related costs in connection with the merger. We expect to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies. The substantial majority of non-recurring expenses resulting from the merger will be comprised of restructuring costs related to the elimination of overlapping positions and duplicative occupancy costs and the termination of overlapping vendor contracts. We will also incur fees and costs related to the continued implementation of integration plans. As of November 30, 2010, we incurred $10.0 million of restructuring and integration related fees and expense. We continue to assess the magnitude of these costs and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies’ businesses. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset incremental restructuring and merger-related integration costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. The merger may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our class A common stock. We currently anticipate that the merger will be accretive to earnings per share during the first full calendar year after the merger. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates that may materially change. In addition, future events and conditions could decrease or delay the accretion that is currently expected or could result in dilution, including adverse changes in market conditions, additional transaction and integration related costs and other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger. Any dilution of, or decrease or delay of any accretion to, our earnings per share could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Nothing required to be disclosed. 40 Table of Contents 