ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this prospectus that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our shares of common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Our success depends on certain key employees. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of a number of senior management and other key employees, including production and creative personnel. We particularly depend upon our Chief Executive Officer, Peter Hoffman, whose employment agreement grants him the right, as long as he is employed by us, to approve or control all artistic and business decisions regarding motion pictures that we acquire, produce or distribute. As a result, our success depends to a significant extent on Mr. Hoffman’s creative and business decisions regarding the motion pictures we acquire, produce and distribute. We do not have “key person” insurance on the lives of any of our officers or directors. We have entered into employment agreements with our top executive officers. These agreements entitle us to possible injunctive relief for breach of the agreements. These agreements cannot assure us of the continued services of such employees. In addition, competition for the limited number of business, production and creative personnel necessary to create and distribute our entertainment content is intense and may grow in the future. Our inability to retain or successfully replace where necessary members of our senior management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our interests may conflict with those of our Chief Executive Officer. We previously had entered into a series of agreements with Mr. Hoffman, and his affiliated companies that may have resulted in our interests differing from theirs (see “Certain Related Transactions”). These arrangements ceased on December 31, 2011. One of these agreements concerns a financing arrangement, in an aggregate amount of $7,500,000, that we entered into with Cheyne Specialty Finance Fund L.P. (“Cheyne”) for the production of our movies, which has been secured with (i) six of our motion pictures and (ii) 4,591 of our shares of common stock beneficially owned by Mr. Hoffman through Seven Arts Pictures Inc. (“SAP”). Upon repayment of $6,500,000, the senior debt (“Cheyne loan”) was acquired by Seven Arts Filmed Entertainment Limited (“SAFE”) in April 2008. Mr. Hoffman believes that the 4,591 pledged shares were released, and the pledged shares were not passed on to the $1,000,000 subordinated noteholder, Arrowhead Consulting Group Limited. Our satisfaction of our debts to Cheyne may provide divergent benefits to us and to Mr. Hoffman, in that Mr. Hoffman claims a full release from this pledge of our common stock by SAP. Other agreements that we have entered into with Mr. Hoffman and his affiliates that may result in conflicts of interest include his employment agreement and limited liability companies in the United States for motion pictures produced prior to December 31, 2010 with all distribution rights and profits thereof for our account and provide other services for our account and according to which SAP has assigned to us any results and proceeds arising from services performed by SAP on our behalf. See “Certain Related Transactions.” We have several transactions with affiliates controlled by our Chief Executive Officer that may provide benefits to him. Certain of our affiliates, controlled by Mr. Hoffman, are entitled to be reimbursed by us for general overhead incurred by each to conduct business for us in amounts approved by us and then to be reimbursed for certain third-party costs on motion pictures controlled by us and to be indemnified for loss costs or damages arising from the conduct of business on our behalf if approved by us. These agreements terminated on December 31, 2011. We have the right and exercise the right to control through our management all material decisions of all affiliates controlled by Mr. Hoffman to the extent such decisions have any material effect on our results of operations. 20 Our failure to repay obligations under the Arrowhead Loan and Cheyne Loan has resulted in the loss of control of assets that we pledged Seven Arts Future Flow I (“SFF”), a limited liability company owned by SAP now owned by PLC (in liquidation). , obtained financing from the Arrowhead Target Fund, Ltd. (“Arrowhead”) of approximately $8,300,000 (the “Arrowhead Loan”). The Group secured the Arrowhead Loan with liens on 12 motion pictures that generated final revenues for the Group of $820,026 in the year ended June 30, 2009 and $2,739,800 in the year ended March 31, 2008. The Arrowhead Loan had been recorded in our audited financial statements as an $8,300,000 liability as of June 30, 2008. Although the loan is secured by certain assets of SFF, the Group is not required to repay the Arrowhead Loan from any of our other assets or revenues. We made certain representation regarding ownership of these twelve motion pictures and agreed to continue to license these twelve motion pictures, collect money received therefrom and to deposit such collections in a designated bank account. The Arrowhead Loan was due on February 15, 2009, and SFF did not pay the outstanding principal and interest due thereon. Arrowhead had the right to foreclose on the pledged film assets, but has not done so. SFF has, however; received a default notice to that effect, and, as a result, Arrowhead is now collecting directly all sums receivable from us with respect to these motion pictures, and has appointed a new servicing agent for these motion pictures, with the result that we no longer control the licensing of these motion pictures. Failure to repay or refinance the Arrowhead Loan could result in a material disposition of assets through the loss of our rights to twelve motion pictures and related loss of revenues in amounts that are difficult to predict. Arrowhead continues to have the right to foreclose on the twelve motion pictures, which are Asylum, The Hustler, I’ll Sleep When I’m Dead, Johnny Mnemonic, Never Talk to Strangers, No Good Deed, Popstar, Red Riding Hood, Shattered Image, A Shot At Glory, Stander, and Supercross. As a result of the foregoing, we have removed all investment in and receivables relating to the twelve motion pictures pledged to Arrowhead as assets and have removed all limited recourse indebtedness related to these motion pictures as liabilities from our consolidated balance sheet for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Arrowhead filed an action on September 22, 2010 which seeks recovery from the Group of the monies which the Group has retained under its interpretation of the relevant agreements with Arrowhead. In addition, Arrowhead makes substantial additional claims against the Group, Mr. Hoffman and SAP regarding claimed breaches of the terms of the operative agreements, including failure to properly account, failure to turn over materials, failure to remit monies collected, and similar matters. The claims against the Group for these breaches of warranties for damages are $8,300,000 although Arrowhead states no basis for this amount. The Group had moved to dismiss the action against all defendants other than SFF, which is not part of the Group. On August 9, 2011, the New York Supreme Court granted the Group’s motion and dismissed all defendants except Seven Arts Filmed Entertainment Limited in its capacity as a collateral agent, which is not a material element of Arrowhead claim. The Group continues to believe that Arrowhead’s claims against the Group are without substantial merit. We also obtained financing of an aggregate of approximately $7,500,000 from Arrowhead Consulting Group LLC (“ACG”) for $1,000,000 (“ACG Loan”) and Cheyne for the $6,500,000 Cheyne Loan at a rate of interest of 19% and 18% per annum, respectively. SAP ., one of our affiliates, which was controlled by Mr. Hoffman, our Chief Executive Officer, secured the ACG Loan and the Cheyne Loan with 321,400 (of our ordinary shares beneficially owned by Mr. Hoffman, and we secured the ACG Loan and the Cheyne Loan with liens on six motion pictures that generated cumulative revenues of approximately $2,326,078 as of June 30, 2009, plus a second position security interest in the motion pictures pledged under the Arrowhead Loan. The Cheyne Loan matured on September 30, 2007. A subsidiary of ours acquired the debt from then due to Cheyne, a sum of approximately $6,500,000, on or about April 2008, and received an assignment from Cheyne of their senior secured position on the film assets, including Cheyne’s subordination agreement with ACG. Management believes that the 321,400 pledged shares were released, and the pledged shares were not passed on to the $1,000,000 subordinated noteholder, ACG. ACG has demanded payment of the ACG Loan of $1,000,000 and has filed suit therefore. The Group is in litigation with the liquidator of ACG regarding the $1,000,000 plus accrued interest as it believes this debt will never be paid due to its subordination to the senior loan. Failure to prevail in this litigation or to repay or refinance the ACG Loan could result in the loss of our rights to six motion pictures. We face substantial capital requirements and financial risks. Our business requires substantial investments of capital. The production, acquisition and distribution of motion pictures require a significant amount of capital. A significant amount of time may elapse between our expenditure of funds and the receipt of commercial revenues or tax credits derived from the production of our motion pictures. This time lapse requires us to fund a significant portion of our capital requirements from various financing sources. We cannot be certain that we can continue to successfully implement these financing arrangements or that we will not be subject to substantial financial risks relating to the production, acquisition, completion and release of future motion pictures. We currently employ a variety of structuring techniques, including debt or equity financing, in efforts to achieve our investment objectives. We cannot be certain that we will be able to negotiate structures that accomplish our objectives. We intend to increase (through internal growth or acquisition) our production slate or our production budgets, and, if we do, we will be required to increase overhead and/or make larger up-front payments to talent and, consequently, bear greater financial risks. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 The costs of producing and marketing feature films have steadily increased and may further increase in the future, making it more difficult for a film to generate a profit. The costs of producing and marketing feature films have generally increased in recent years. These costs may continue to increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for our films to generate a profit or compete against other films. Historically, production costs and marketing costs have risen at a higher rate than increases in either the number of domestic admissions to movie theaters or admission ticket prices. A continuation of this trend would leave us more dependent on other media, such as home video, television, international markets and new media for revenue, which may not be sufficient to offset an increase in the cost of motion picture production. If we cannot successfully exploit these other media, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Budget overruns may adversely affect our business. Our business model requires that we be efficient in the production of our motion pictures. Actual motion picture production costs often exceed their budgets, sometimes significantly. The production, completion and distribution of motion pictures are subject to a number of uncertainties, including delays and increased expenditures due to creative differences among key cast members and other key creative personnel or other disruptions or events beyond our control. Risks such as death or disability of star performers, technical complications with special effects or other aspects of production, shortages of necessary equipment, damage to film negatives, master tapes and recordings or adverse weather conditions may cause cost overruns and delay or frustrate completion of a production. If a motion picture incurs substantial budget overruns, we may have to seek additional financing from outside sources to complete production, which may not be available on suitable terms. We cannot assure you that such financing on terms acceptable to us will be available, and the lack of such financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if a motion picture production incurs substantial budget overruns, we cannot assure you that we will recoup these costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increased costs incurred with respect to a particular film may result in any such film not being ready for release at the intended time and the postponement to a potentially less favorable time, all of which could cause a decline in box office performance, and, thus, the overall financial success of such film. Budget overruns could also prevent a picture from being completed or released. Although none of these events has occurred to us to date, any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A substantial number of our motion pictures did not generate enough revenue to satisfy financing obligations related to those motion pictures, and our future motion pictures may not generate enough revenue to satisfy obligations entered into to finance their production. We have obtained financing for most of our motion pictures and secured those financings with the assets from those and other motion pictures. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues to repay those obligations under the terms of the financings, we lose those motion picture assets and any future revenues that we could derive from those assets. As noted, the revenues of the 12 and 6 motion pictures securing the Arrowhead Loan and the ACG Loan, respectively, have not met our estimates, and, as a result, we have not been able to repay those loans in the periods set out in those loans. If we are unable to amend the terms of those loans or satisfy them otherwise, we could lose those motion picture assets. Additionally, our net revenues from a certain tax advantaged transaction after accounting for expenses for that transaction were not sufficient to enable us to satisfy a £1,000,000 ($1,651,000 ) convertible debenture from Trafalgar Capital Special Investment Fund (“Trafalgar”) that came due on June 30, 2009, which we had expected to repay from that funding source even though that funding source was not pledged to repay the Trafalgar loan. As a result, we defaulted on a payment of £1,000,000 plus interest to Trafalgar Capital Special Investment Fund in June 2009. On September 2, 2009 the Group repaid Trafalgar $1,000,000 as a partial payment against this loan, with the remaining balance subject to repayment in cash or convertible to the shares of common stock of the Group at the conversion terms as agreed between Trafalgar and the Group. On June 22, 2010 an amended agreement was entered into with Trafalgar for an extension of the due date of the convertible debentures to December 31, 2010, and the Group agreed to issue 971 shares of common stock to settle a portion of the debt. Trafalgar agreed to reduce the loan amount from the proceeds it received from selling the 68,000 shares of common stock. The transaction was consummated subsequent to the date of the financial statements and all 68,000 had been sold by December 31, 2010. Subsequent to June 30, 2010, a further amended agreement was entered into with Trafalgar for an extension of the due date of the convertible debentures to March 31, 2011, and the Group agreed to issue 85,000 shares of common stock to settle a portion of the debt. Trafalgar agreed to reduce the loan amount from the proceeds it received from selling the 1,214 shares of common stock. The current balance outstanding on the loan after sale of these 85,000 shares is approximately $530,000. 22 We entered into two senior financing loan and security agreements with Palm to finance the production costs of The Pool Boys, Autopsy and Nine Miles Down dated May 7, 2007 and December 17, 2007. These loans are secured by the revenues to be collected from these motion pictures. The revenues so far collected have been insufficient to repay the majority of these loans, primarily as result of management’s decision to delay the release of these films. We have entered into a forbearance agreement with Palm extending the due date of these loans to December 31, 2012. The original principal amounts of the Palm loans for The Pool Boys and Autopsy are $ 5,250,000, including a $500,000 interest reserve, and for Nine Miles Down was $4,000,000, including a $750,000 interest reserve. We cannot assure you that a failure to repay these obligations will not make the terms of future financings more onerous or prohibitive. We also cannot assure you that our estimates of revenues from motion pictures securing any other current or future financings will be accurate, and that we will be able to satisfy those financings with the revenues from the motion pictures securing those financings. The loss of motion picture or other assets as a result of any such default would adversely affect our business. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly. Revenues and results of operations are difficult to predict and depend on a variety of factors. Our revenues and results of operations depend significantly upon the performance of the motion pictures that we license for distribution, which we cannot predict with certainty. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and the results of any one period may not be indicative of the results for any future periods. Furthermore, largely as a result of these predictive difficulties, we may not be able to achieve the earnings projected by any analysts that follow our stock. Revisions to projected earnings could cause investors to lose confidence in us, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. Accounting practices used in our industry may accentuate fluctuations in operating results. In addition to the cyclical nature of the entertainment industry, industry accounting practices may accentuate fluctuations in our operating results. While such fluctuations have not occurred to date, we may in the future experience such fluctuations due to industry-wide accounting practices. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and industry practice, we amortize film and television programming costs using the “individual-film-forecast” method, whereby these costs are amortized and participations and residuals costs are accrued in the proportion that current year’s revenue bears to management’s estimate of ultimate revenue at the beginning of the current year expected to be recognized from the exploitation, exhibition or sale of the films. The great majority of a film’s costs (80% or more) are generally amortized within three years of the picture's initial release. Ultimate revenue includes estimates over a period not to exceed ten years following the date of initial release. Film costs are stated at the lower of amortized cost or the film’s estimated fair value. Individual film costs are reviewed on a title-by-title basis, when an event or change in circumstances indicates that the fair value of a film is less than its unamortized cost. The fair value of the film is determined using management’s future revenue and cost estimates and a discounted cash flow approach. Additional amortization is recorded in the amount by which the unamortized costs exceed the estimated fair value of the film. Estimates of future revenue involve measurement uncertainty and it is therefore possible that reductions in the carrying value of investment in films may be required as a consequence of changes in management’s future revenue estimates. We depend on a limited number of projects, and the loss or failure of a major project could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenue is generated from a limited number of films, principally Autopsy, Nine Miles Down, Deal, Noise, Drunkboat, and Night of the Demons. Films that we develop, finance, or license for distribution vary due to the opportunities available to us and to targeted audience response, both of which are unpredictable and subject to change. The loss or failure of a major project could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition as well as on the market price of our securities. We cannot assure you that any project we undertake or participate in will be successful. We rely upon pre-sales, advances and guarantees. We attempt to minimize some of the financial risks normally associated with motion picture production by obtaining, at various stages prior to release of our motion pictures, advances and guarantees from distributors in exchange for distribution rights to such pictures in particular territories. Advances and guarantees paid by a distributor for distribution rights to a film generally represent a minimum purchase price for such rights. While advances and guarantees reduce some of the financial risk of our motion pictures, they do not assure the profitability of our motion pictures or our Company's operations and, it may also result in our receiving lower revenues with respect to successful films. We believe that international “pre-sales” have become increasingly difficult to obtain resulting in fewer “pre-sales” with lower minimum guarantees, and this situation may continue for the indefinite future. As the international marketplace demands increasingly costly motion pictures, we cannot be certain that the amount of advances and guarantees which we anticipate generating on a given film project will exceed our cost of producing such motion picture. 23 In today’s rapidly changing and competitive marketplace for motion pictures, it is possible that the amount of such advances and guarantees alone, after payment of our operating expenses, even if greater than our direct cost of producing a specific film, will not be sufficient to provide us with a significant return on our invested capital. Should we incur higher than expected overhead or production expenses, that amount may not be sufficient to provide a return of all or substantially all of our invested capital. To the extent that we do not produce one or more films that generate overages for us, there may be a material adverse effect upon our Company and the potential for returns on, and even the return of, our capital. We rely on tax preference and tax credit transactions for a substantial portion of our revenues and recovery of film costs. We have received substantial money as revenues and recovery of investments in motion picture production and distribution costs from tax preference and tax credit transactions in the United States and other countries, which transactions have provided between 25% to 50% of film production costs on our pictures (approximately $1,000,000 to $3,500,000 per film). We cannot be certain that such revenues and cost recoveries will be available to us in future periods. These benefits accrue pursuant principally by means of statutes in Louisiana, the United Kingdom, Canada and Hungary, which could be repealed or amended based on general income tax considerations or political changes. We are aware of no such changes proposed or threatened at the present time. We have a limited operating history. Our predecessor was formed in 1992, and later transferred all its motion picture assets to SAP in October, 2002. SAP acquired control of our Company in September 2004 by a transfer of all its motion picture rights to Seven Arts Filmed Entertainment Limited, which is now a wholly owned subsidiary of SAE. Although our predecessors have a more extensive operating history, our immediate listing predecessor began operations in its current form and business strategy in October 2004. We currently lack a credit facility. We do not have any credit facility with respect to financing production of our motion pictures. We have primarily depended upon financing arrangements tied to specific motion pictures for the funding of our productions. Given the tightening of credit markets, we are seeking to establish a credit facility to provide us with more flexibility in the funding of our productions or operations. We cannot assure you that we can secure a credit facility or that, if we secure a credit facility, the terms will be favorable to us. Without a credit facility, we will not have the same flexibility with our financing arrangements as some of our competitors and will need to continue to rely upon financing arrangements tied to specific motion pictures for the funding of our productions. We face risks from doing business internationally. We distribute motion pictures outside the United States through third-party licensees and derive revenues from these sources. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: ● laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes, and changes in these laws, ● changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content, ● differing cultural tastes and attitudes, ● differing degrees of protection for intellectual property, ● financial instability and increased market concentration of buyers in foreign television markets, including in European pay television markets, ● the instability of foreign economies and governments and ● War and acts of terrorism. 24 Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-U.S. sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing our operations could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our operations are subject to substantial government regulation, particularly regulations governing the use of tax credits granted during film production in Louisiana, the United Kingdom, Canada and Hungary. We receive a substantial portion of the financing for our motion picture production from tax credits and other tax-preferred financings. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing these tax credits or other aspects of our business, including intellectual property and censorship laws, could increase our costs of operations, reduce our revenues, jeopardize the ownership of certain assets or increase the cost of financing our motion pictures. Tax regulations, intellectual property laws or other rules and regulations affecting our business may be changed in a manner which may adversely affect us and our ability to operate our business plan. The production of a larger budget motion picture may adversely affect our operating results. Historically, we have primarily produced motion pictures with budgets of between $2 million and $15 million. We may occasionally produce a motion picture with a larger budget of between $30 million and $60 million. To produce such a motion picture, we believe that we will need to co-produce such motion pictures with major studios and ensure a studio-wide release and a commitment to cover P&A costs or with one or more other independent production companies. To date, we have not produced or co-produced a motion picture with a budget in that range. We cannot assure you that we can successfully produce and distribute motion pictures in that budgetary range, that we can find a major studio to co-produce such motion pictures or that we can secure a studio-wide release or a commitment from a studio to cover P&A costs. Risks Relating to Motion Pictures Our success depends on external factors in the motion picture industry. Our success depends on the commercial success of motion pictures, which is unpredictable. Operating in the motion picture industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each motion picture is an individual artistic work, and inherently unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. Generally, the popularity of our motion pictures depends on many factors, including public reception, the formats of their initial releases, for example, theatrical or direct-to-video, the actors and other key talent, their genre and their specific subject matter. The commercial success of our motion pictures also depends upon the quality and acceptance of motion pictures that our competitors release into the marketplace at or near the same time, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which we do not control and all of which may change. We cannot predict the future effects of these factors with certainty, any of which factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, because a motion picture’s performance in ancillary markets, such as home video and pay and free television, is often directly related to its box office performance or television ratings, poor box office results or poor television ratings may negatively affect future revenue streams. Our success will depend on the experience and judgment of our management to select and develop new investment and production opportunities. We cannot assure you that our motion pictures will obtain favorable reviews or ratings, or that our motion pictures will perform well at the box office or in ancillary markets. The failure to achieve any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the United States, global or regional economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of our business. The current severe decrease in economic activity in the United States or in other regions of the world in which we do business could adversely affect demand for our films, thus reducing our revenue and earnings. A decline in economic conditions could reduce performance of our theatrical, television and home entertainment releases. In addition, an increase in consumer costs generally, or consumer costs in a particular sector of the entertainment industry, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. 25 Distributors’ failure to promote our programs may adversely affect our business. Licensed distributors’ decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of our motion pictures and related products are important in determining the success of these pictures and products. We do not control the timing and manner in which our licensed distributors distribute our motion pictures. Any decision by those distributors not to distribute or promote one of our motion pictures or related products or to promote our competitors’ motion pictures or related products to a greater extent than they promote ours could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by strikes, potential strikes or other union job actions. We directly or indirectly depend upon highly specialized union members who are essential to the production of motion pictures. A strike by, or a lockout of, one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of motion pictures could delay or halt our ongoing production activities. In November 2007, the members of the Writer’s Guild of America went on strike, and a new agreement was not approved until February 2008. Additionally, the Directors Guild of America and Screen Actors Guild (“SAG”) collective bargaining agreements expired in 2008. An agreement has now been reached with the Directors Guild and SAG. A SAG or other union strike or action, depending on the length of time, could cause a delay or interruption in our production and release of new motion pictures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Almost all financing of the production of motion pictures by independent production companies involves third parties providing film production completion bonds to guarantee the repayment of the financings upon the abandonment of production if certain conditions are met. Such film completion bonds do not provide for the repayment of the financing if a production is abandoned due to a strike. Without such waivers and in view of a potential strike, there may be dramatically less financing of the production of motion pictures by independent production companies as it will be difficult or impossible to obtain a film production completion bond, and it may be too risky to start films where production could be interrupted by a strike. We face substantial competition in all aspects of our business. We are smaller and less diversified than many of our competitors. As an independent distributor and producer, we constantly compete with major U.S. and international studios and independent producers and distributors. Most of the major U.S. studios are part of large diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, including television networks and cable channels, which can provide both the means of distributing their products and stable sources of earnings that may allow them better to offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their motion picture operations. In addition, the major studios and larger independent producers and distributors have more resources with which to compete for ideas, storylines and scripts created by third parties as well as for actors, directors and other personnel required for production. The resources of the major studios and larger independent producers and distributors may also give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets, including film libraries, that we might also be interested in acquiring. Our inability to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The motion picture industry is highly competitive and at times may create an oversupply of motion pictures in the market. The number of motion pictures released by our competitors may create an oversupply of product in the market, reduce our share of box office receipts and make it more difficult for our films to succeed commercially. Oversupply may become most pronounced during peak release times, such as school holidays and national holidays, when theater attendance is expected to be highest. For this reason, and because of our more limited production and advertising budgets, generally provided by third-party distributors, we typically do not release our films during peak release times, which may also reduce our potential revenues for a particular release. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that we can release all of our films when they are otherwise scheduled. In addition to production or other delays that might cause us to alter our release schedule, a change in the schedule of a major studio may force us to alter the release date of a film because we cannot always compete with a major studio’s larger promotion campaign. Any such change could adversely impact a film’s financial performance. In addition, if we cannot change our schedule after such a change by a major studio because we are too close to the release date, the major studio’s release and its typically larger promotion budget may adversely impact the financial performance of our film. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The limited supply of motion picture screens compounds this product oversupply problem. Currently, a substantial majority of the motion picture screens in the United States typically are committed at any one time to only ten to fifteen films distributed nationally by major studio distributors. In addition, as a result of changes in the theatrical exhibition industry, including reorganizations and consolidations and the fact that major studio releases occupy more screens, the number of screens available to us when we want to release a picture may decrease. If the number of motion picture screens decreases, box office receipts, and the correlating future revenue streams, such as from home video and pay and free television, of our motion pictures may also decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 DVD sales have been declining, which may adversely affect our growth prospects and results of operations. Several factors, including weakening economic conditions, the deteriorating financial condition of major retailers, the maturation of the DVD format, increasing competition for consumer discretionary spending and leisure time, piracy and increased competition for retailer shelf space, are contributing to an industry-wide decline in DVD sales both domestically and internationally. The high definition format war between the HD DVD and Blu-ray formats ended in February 2008 with Toshiba Corporation’s announcement of its decision to discontinue its HD DVD businesses; however, reduced consumer discretionary spending in a challenging economic environment, may slow widespread adoption of the Blu-ray format or lead consumers to forego adopting a high definition DVD format altogether, which would adversely affect DVD sales. DVD sales also may be negatively affected as consumers increasingly shift from consuming physical entertainment products to digital forms of entertainment. The motion picture industry faces a challenge in managing the transition from physical to electronic formats in a manner that continues to support the current DVD business and its relationships with large retail customers and yet meets the growing consumer demand for delivery of motion pictures in a variety of electronic formats. We cannot assure you that home video wholesale prices can be maintained at current levels, due to aggressive retail pricing, digital competition and other factors. In addition, in the event of a protracted economic downturn, reduced consumer discretionary spending could lead to further declines in DVD sales. A decline in DVD sales may have a disproportionate effect on us and our results of operations as a number of our releases only have a limited theatrical release or are released direct-to-DVD. We must successfully respond to rapid technological changes and alternative forms of delivery or storage to remain competitive. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our business. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, new video formats and downloading and streaming from the internet. An increase in video-on-demand could decrease home video rentals. Similarly, further increases in the use of portable digital devices that allow users to view content of their own choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements could adversely affect our revenues. Other larger entertainment distribution companies will have larger budgets to exploit these growing trends. We cannot predict how we will financially participate in the exploitation of our motion pictures through these emerging technologies or whether we have the right to do so for certain of our library titles. If we cannot successfully exploit these and other emerging technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Protecting and defending against intellectual property claims may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, upon successful protection of our intellectual property. We do not have the financial resources to protect our rights to the same extent as major studios. We are not a member of the Motion Picture Association of America (“MPAA”) as are the major studios and as a result we cannot rely on MPAA resources to prevent piracy and copyright infringements. We attempt to protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in certain countries. We also distribute our products in other countries in which there is no copyright or trademark protection. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or certain portions or applications of our intended productions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Litigation may also be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that infringement or invalidity claims will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of the validity or the success of the assertion of these claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in enforcing our intellectual property rights or in defending against such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. One of the risks of the film production business is the possibility that others may claim that our productions and production techniques misappropriate or infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties with respect to their previously developed films, stories, characters, other entertainment or intellectual property. We may receive in the future claims of infringement or misappropriation of other parties’ proprietary rights, although we have had to date been served with only one such claim which was settled on favorable terms. Any such assertions or claims may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending against them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to settle such claim by obtaining a license from the plaintiff covering the disputed intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you, however, that under such circumstances a license, or any other form of settlement, would be available on reasonable terms or at all. 27 Our business involves risks of liability claims for media content, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a licensor of media content, we may face potential liability for: ● defamation, ● invasion of privacy, ● negligence, ● copyright or trademark infringement (as discussed above), and ● Other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against producers and licensors of media content. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Piracy of motion pictures, including digital and internet piracy may reduce the gross receipts from the exploitation of our films. Motion picture piracy is extensive in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats. This trend facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of motion pictures in theatrical release, on videotapes and DVDs, from pay-per-view through set top boxes and other devices and through unlicensed broadcasts on free television and the internet. The proliferation of unauthorized copies of these products has had and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our business, because these unauthorized pirated copies reduce the revenue we receive from our products. Additionally, to contain this problem, we may have to implement elaborate and costly security and anti-piracy measures, which could result in significant expenses and losses of revenue. We cannot assure you that even the highest levels of security and anti-piracy measures will prevent piracy. In particular, unauthorized copying and piracy are prevalent in countries outside of the United States, Canada and Western Europe, whose legal systems may make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property rights. While the U.S. government has publicly considered implementing trade sanctions against specific countries that, in its opinion, do not make appropriate efforts to prevent copyright infringements of U.S. produced motion pictures, we cannot assure you that any such sanctions will be enacted or, if enacted, will be effective. In addition, if enacted, such sanctions could impact the amount of revenue that we realize from the international exploitation of motion pictures. If no embargoes or sanctions are enacted, or if other measures are not taken, we may lose revenue as a result of motion picture piracy. There is a potential for disputes and litigation in the motion picture business. There are risks of disputes and litigation with financiers, competitors, putative rights owners, unions, producers and other talent, and with distributors. We cannot assure you that we will prevail in the event of any disputes or litigation. We have failed to prevail in full arbitration regarding 9 ½ Weeks II, which has resulted in a judgment against us. 28 Risks related to the Recorded Music Business The music industry has been declining and may continue to decline, which may adversely affect our prospects and our results of operations. Illegal downloading of music from the internet, piracy, economic recession, and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending and retail shelf space may all be contributing to declines in the recorded music industry. Additionally, the period of growth in recorded music sales driven by the introduction and penetration of the CD format has ended. New formats for selling recorded music product have been created, including the legal downloading of digital music using the Internet, physical format product innovations and the distribution of music on mobile devices, and revenue streams from these new channels are beginning to emerge. These new digital revenue streams are important to offset declines in physical sales and represent the fastest growing area of our business. While it is believed within the recorded music industry that growth in digital sales will re-establish a growth pattern for all recorded sales, the timing cannot be established with accuracy nor can we determine the impact of how these changes will affect individual markets. There can be no assurance that the Company will ever achieve any revenues or profitable operations through these new digital revenue streams. We may be unable to manage our growth or implement our expansion strategy. We may not be able to expand our product and service offerings, our client base and markets, or implement the other features of our business strategy at the rate or to the extent presently planned. Our projected growth will place a significant strain on our administrative, operational and financial resources. If we are unable to successfully manage our future growth, establish and continue to upgrade our operating and financial control systems, recruit and hire necessary personnel or effectively manage unexpected expansion difficulties, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our growth depends upon our ability to attract new talent and commercially develop existing talent. There can be no assurance that our efforts to attract and develop talent can be accomplished on a profitable basis, if at all. Our expansion of our record distribution and promotions will depend on a number of factors, most notably the timely and successful promotion and sale of our products by the Company and our regional distributors. Our inability to expand sales in a timely manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our prospects and financial results may be adversely affected if we fail to identify, sign and retain artists that have consumer appeal We are dependent on identifying, signing and retaining artists with long-term potential, whose debut albums are well received on release, whose subsequent albums are anticipated by consumers and whose music will continue to generate sales as part of our catalog for years to come. The competition among record companies for such talent is intense. Competition among record companies to sell records is also intense and the marketing expenditures necessary to compete are significant and have increased as well. Our competitive position is dependent on our continuing ability to attract and develop talent whose work can achieve a high degree of public acceptance. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we are unable to identify, sign and retain such artists under terms that are economically attractive to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully and profitably obtain and market such talent in the near term or in the future. The urban and dance genres of the music industry, where we intend to focus, are highly competitive and characterized by changing consumer preferences and continuous introduction of new artists. Our goal is to maintain and improve the recording artists currently under contract with us and to seek out and recruit additional talent that will appeal to various consumer preferences. We believe that our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and develop and introduce, in a timely manner, artists and products which adequately address such changes. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in recruiting, developing, and marketing such artists and products on a timely and regular basis. Our failure successfully to introduce such artists or products, or the failure of the retail markets to accept them, would have a materially adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. No assurance can be given that consumer demand for the urban and dance genres of the music industry, such as those products intended to be produced by us, will continue in the future or, if such demand does continue, that we will be able to satisfy consumer preferences. Changes in consumer spending can affect both the quantity sold and the price of our products and may therefore affect our operating results. 29 If we fail to obtain necessary funds for our operations, we will be unable to maintain and develop and commercialize our products. Our present and future capital requirements depend on many factors, including: ● our ability and willingness to enter into new agreements with strategic partners, and the terms of these agreements; ● our ability to enter into new agreements to expand the distribution of our talents records, and the terms of such agreements; the costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; and the time and costs involved in finding and maintaining talent. ● Our ability to continue as a going concern ultimately depends on our ability to increase sales and reduce expenses to a level that will allow us to operate profitably and sustain positive operating cash flows. Additional financing will be necessary for the implementation of our growth strategy. We may require additional debt and/or equity financing to pursue our growth strategy. Given our operating history and existing losses, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional financing. Lack of additional funding could force us to curtail substantially our growth plans. Furthermore, the issuance by us of any additional securities pursuant to any future fundraising activities undertaken by us would dilute the ownership of existing shareholders and may reduce the price of our common stock. Furthermore, debt financing, if available, will require payment of interest and may involve restrictive covenants that could impose limitations on our operating flexibility. Our failure successfully to obtain additional future funding may jeopardize its ability to continue its business and operations. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our success is heavily dependent on the continued active participation of our current executive officers listed under “Management.” Loss of the services of one or more of these officers could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, our success and achievement of our growth plans depend on our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the music industry is intense, and the loss of any of such persons, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate any additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could have a materially adverse effect on us. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel and consultants and advisors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering any members of our senior management. We face significant competition. Our recorded products will be marketed and sold to a segment of the market that is highly competitive. The principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products include product quality, packaging, brand recognition, brand and artist acceptance, price and distribution capabilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors based on these and other factors. We also compete with a variety of domestic and international producers and distributors, many of whom have substantially greater financial, production, distribution and marketing resources and have achieved a higher level of brand recognition than ours. In the event we become successful in our marketing, promotion and distribution of products bearing our name, it is likely we will experience additional competition in the industry from major labels, each of which is capable of marketing products designed to compete directly in the R&B, rap, pop, country and Latin segments. We compete with other music producers and distributors not only for market share, brand acceptance and loyalty, but also for display space in retail establishments and, more importantly, for marketing focus by our distributors and retailers, all of which distribute and sell other manufacturers products. Future competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Any Inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our ability to compete. Our future success and ability to compete depends in part upon our intellectual property, which we attempt to protect with a combination of copyright and trademark laws, as well as with contractual provisions. These legal protections afford only limited protection and are time- consuming and expensive to obtain and/or maintain. Further, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Any trademarks that are issued to us could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. While we diligently intend to protect our intellectual property rights, the monitoring of any infringement and/or misappropriation of our intellectual property can be difficult, and there is no guarantee that we would detect any infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights. Even if we detect infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, litigation to enforce these rights could cause us to divert financial and other resources away from our business operations. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could adversely affect our business. Our business and recognition in the music industry is highly dependent upon intellectual property, a field that has encountered increasing litigation in recent years. If we are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, any litigation to defend the claim could be costly and would divert the time and resources of management, regardless of the merits of the claim. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any such litigation. If we were to lose a litigation relating to intellectual property, we could, among other things, be forced to pay monetary damages and/or to cease the sale or use of certain products. Any of the foregoing may adversely affect our business. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions could adversely affect our prospects and our results of operations. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could negatively affect product demand and other related matters. The current volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets have reached unprecedented levels and have adversely impacted global economic conditions, resulting in significant recessionary pressures and lower consumer confidence and lower retail sales in general, which has negatively impacted our business. In addition, although we believe our cash provided by operations will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current credit crisis, the impact of this crisis on our major customers and suppliers, including those who provide our manufacturing, packaging and physical distribution requirements, cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. The inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet delivery date requirements of our customers. A disruption of the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to reductions in their future orders of our products or the failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us. Consequently, demand could be different from our expectations due to factors including changes in business and economic conditions, including conditions in the credit market that could affect consumer confidence, customer acceptance of our and competitors’ products, changes in the level of inventory at retailers and changes in the global advertising business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results. There may be downward pressure on our pricing and our profit margins and reductions in shelf space. There are a variety of factors that could cause us to reduce our prices and reduce our profit margins. They are, among others, price competition from the negotiating leverage of mass merchandisers, big-box retailers and distributors of digital music, the increased costs of doing business with mass merchandisers and big-box retailers as a result of complying with operating procedures that are unique to their needs and any changes in costs associated with new digital formats. In addition, we are currently dependent on a small number of leading online music stores, which allows them to significantly influence the prices we can charge in connection with the distribution of digital music. Over the course of the last decade, U.S. mass-market and other stores’ share of U.S physical music sales has continued to grow. While we cannot predict how future competition will impact music retailers, as the music industry continues to transform it is possible that the share of music sales by mass-market retailers such as Wal-Mart and Target and online music stores such as Apple’s iTunes will continue to grow as a result of the decline of specialty music retailers, which could further increase their negotiating leverage. The declining number of specialty music retailers may not only put pressure on profit margins, but could also impact catalog sales as mass-market retailers generally sell top chart albums only, with a limited range of back catalog. We are substantially dependent on a limited number of online music stores, in particular Apple’s iTunes Music Store, for the online sale of our music recordings and they are able to significantly influence the pricing structure for online music stores. Organized industrial piracy may lead to decreased sales. The global organized commercial pirate trade is a significant threat to the music industry. The IIPA estimates that trade losses due to physical piracy of records and music in 47 key countries/territories around the world with copyright protection and/or enforcement deficiencies totaled $2 billion in 2008. Unauthorized copies and piracy have contributed to the decrease in the volume of legitimate sales and put pressure on the price of legitimate sales. They have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business. 31 Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent upon intellectual property, an area that has encountered increased litigation in recent years. If we are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, any litigation to defend the claim could be costly and would divert the time and resources of management, regardless of the merits of the claim. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any such litigation. If we were to lose a litigation relating to intellectual property, we could be forced to pay monetary damages and to cease the sale of certain products or the use of certain technology. Any of the foregoing may adversely affect our business. Due to the nature of our business, our results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our net sales, operating income and profitability, like those of other companies in the music business, are largely affected by the number and quality of albums that we release or that include musical compositions published by us, timing of our release schedule and, more importantly, the consumer demand for these releases. We also make advance payments to recording artists and songwriters, which impact our operating cash flows. The timing of album releases and advance payments is largely based on business and other considerations and is made without regard to the timing of the release of our financial results. We report results of operations quarterly and our results of operations and cash flows in any reporting period may be materially affected by the timing of releases and advance payments, which may result in significant fluctuations from period to period. We may be unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate and we may suffer reduced profits as a result. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive, is based on consumer preferences and is rapidly changing. Additionally, the music industry requires substantial human and capital resources. We compete with other recorded music companies and music publishers to identify and sign new recording artists and songwriters who subsequently achieve long-term success and to renew agreements with established artists and songwriters. In addition, our competitors may from time to time reduce their prices in an effort to expand market share and introduce new services, or improve the quality of their products or services. We may lose business if we are unable to sign successful recording artists or songwriters or to match the prices or the quality of products and services, offered by our competitors. Our business operations in some countries subject us to trends, developments or other events in foreign countries which may affect us adversely. We are a global company with strong local presences, which have become increasingly important as the popularity of music originating from a country’s own language and culture has increased in recent years. Our mix of national and international recording artists and songwriters provides a significant degree of diversification for our music portfolio. However, our creative content does not necessarily enjoy universal appeal. As a result, our results can be affected not only by general industry trends, but also by trends, developments or other events in individual countries, including: ● limited legal protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights; ● restrictions on the repatriation of capital; ● fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates; ● differences and unexpected changes in regulatory environment, including environmental, health and safety, local planning, zoning and labor laws, rules and regulations; ● varying tax regimes which could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows, including regulations relating to transfer pricing and withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and joint ventures; ● exposure to different legal standards and enforcement mechanisms and the associated cost of compliance; ● difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified management and employees or rationalizing our workforce; ● tariffs, duties, export controls and other trade barriers; ● longer accounts receivable settlement cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; ● recessionary trends, inflation and instability of the financial markets; ● higher interest rates; and ● political instability. We may not be able to insure or hedge against these risks, and we may not be able to ensure compliance with all of the applicable regulations without incurring additional costs. Furthermore, financing may not be available in countries with less than investment-grade sovereign credit ratings. As a result, it may be difficult to create or maintain profit-making operations in developing countries. 32 In addition, our results can be affected by trends, developments and other events in individual countries. There can be no assurance that in the future other country-specific trends, developments or other events will not have such a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in any given market and prompt promotional or other actions that affect our margins. Our business may be adversely affected by competitive market conditions and we may not be able to execute our business strategy. We intend to increase revenues and cash flow through a business strategy which requires us, among other things, to continue to maximize the value of our music assets, to significantly reduce costs to maximize flexibility and adjust to new realities of the market, to continue to act to contain digital piracy and to diversify our revenue streams into growing segments of the music business by entering into expanded-rights deals with recording artists and by operating our artist services businesses and to capitalize on digital distribution and emerging technologies. Each of these initiatives requires sustained management focus, organization and coordination over significant periods of time. Each of these initiatives also requires success in building relationships with third parties and in anticipating and keeping up with technological developments and consumer preferences and may involve the implementation of new business models or distribution platforms. The results of our strategy and the success of our implementation of this strategy will not be known for some time in the future. If we are unable to implement our strategy successfully or properly react to changes in market conditions, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. A significant portion of our music publishing revenues are subject to rate regulation either by government entities or by local third-party collection societies throughout the world and rates on other income streams may be set by arbitration proceedings, which may limit our profitability. Mechanical royalties and performance royalties are the two largest sources of income to our Music Publishing business and mechanical royalties are a significant expense to our Recorded Music business. In the U.S., mechanical rates are set pursuant to an arbitration process under the U.S. Copyright Act unless rates are determined through voluntary industry negotiations and performance rates are set by performing rights societies and subject to challenge by performing rights licensees. Outside the United States., mechanical and performance rates are typically negotiated on an industry-wide basis. The mechanical and performance rates set pursuant to such processes may adversely affect us by limiting our ability to increase the profitability of our Music Publishing business. If the mechanical rates are set too high it may also adversely affect us by limiting our ability to increase the profitability of our Recorded Music business. In addition, rates our recorded music business receives in the United States for, among other sources of income and potential income, webcasting and satellite radio are set by an arbitration process under the United States Copyright Act unless rates are determined through voluntary industry negotiations. It is important as sales shift from physical to diversified distribution channels that we receive fair value for all of the uses of our intellectual property as our business model now depends upon multiple revenue streams from multiple sources. If the rates for Recorded Music income sources that are established through legally prescribed rate-setting processes are set too low, it could have a material adverse impact on our recorded music business or our business prospects. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. We have assets, liabilities, revenues and costs denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. Consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. These translations could result in significant changes to our results of operations from period to period. If we acquire or invest in other businesses, we will face certain risks inherent in such transactions. We may acquire, make investments in, or enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures with, companies engaged in businesses that are similar or complementary to ours. If we make such acquisitions or investments or enter into strategic alliances, we will face certain risks inherent in such transactions. For example, gaining regulatory approval for significant acquisitions or investments could be a lengthy process and there can be no assurance of a successful outcome and we could increase our leverage in connection with acquisitions or investments. We could face difficulties in managing and integrating newly acquired operations. Additionally, such transactions would divert management resources and may result in the loss of recording artists or songwriters from our rosters. If we invest in companies involved in new businesses or develop our own new business opportunities, we will need to integrate and effectively manage these new businesses before any new line of business can become successful, and as such the progress and success of any new business is uncertain. In addition, investments in new business may result in an increase in capital expenditures to build infrastructure to support our new initiatives. We cannot assure you that if we make any future acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances or joint ventures that they will be completed in a timely manner, that they will be structured or financed in a way that will enhance our credit-worthiness or that they will meet our strategic objectives or otherwise be successful. We also may not be successful in implementing appropriate operational, financial and management systems and controls to achieve the benefits expected to result from these transactions. Failure to effectively manage any of these transactions could result in material increases in costs or reductions in expected revenues, or both. In addition, if any new business in which we invest or which we attempt to develop does not progress as planned, we may not recover the funds and resources we have expended and this could have a negative impact on our businesses or our Company as a whole. 33 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 