Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are important factors that could affect our business and our financial condition and results of operations. Such factors could also cause our actual results for future periods to differ materially from our expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements”. We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements made in oral presentations, including conference calls and/ or webcasts open to the public. Except as may be required under applicable law, we undertake no responsibility to update our Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Related to our Business Global economic conditions could continue to affect adversely our business and financial results. Unfavorable economic conditions, and in particular, downturns that affect the transportation, food processing, food service, manufacturing, government and housekeeping markets, may negatively impact our business and financial results. The recent global recession, many aspects of which, such as high unemployment, are continuing, negatively impacted all of these markets. During downturns in economic conditions, we experience decreased demand for our products as many customers either defer purchases or purchase lower-cost products. Credit quality frequently declines during recessions, which reduces our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis, or at all, from certain customers. Furthermore, the ability of certain suppliers to fill our orders for raw materials or other goods and services declined because of the diminished availability of credit. A prolonged recession, particularly one that affects the end-user markets listed above, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our results can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost or availability of materials used in our manufacturing processes. The key raw materials we use in our chemical products are surfactants, polymers and resins, fragrances, water, solvents and other petroleum-based materials and packaging materials. Many of the raw materials that we use are energy dependent and, therefore, are subject to the availability and price of energy related inputs such as oil and natural gas. Furthermore, there are a limited number of suppliers 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements for some of our raw materials. Competitive conditions, governmental restrictions, natural disasters and other events could limit the quantities of our raw materials that we are able to purchase. As a result, the price and availability of the raw materials we use may fluctuate substantially. For example, we are currently experiencing difficulty obtaining D-limonene, a key component of our citrus-based cleaning products, because of frost damage to last year’s citrus crop. We have had to increase the price of our citrus-based cleaning products to reflect the increased cost of this raw material. The price increases may lessen demand for our citrus-based cleaning products. As another example, we also expect that the cost of ethanol, which is used in some of our products and which is increasing in importance as a transportation fuel, will soon increase substantially because corn production was insufficient to meet expected demand for the product. We may not be able to increase the prices of our products to recover the increased cost of the raw materials we use. Significant increases in the prices of our raw materials could have a negative effect on demand for our products and on our operating margins. Furthermore, our ability to meet the demand for our products could be negatively impacted by shortages of our raw materials. We do not currently engage in commodity hedging transactions for significant quantities of our raw materials. We attempt to manage fluctuations in the price and availability of our raw materials by entering into long-term supply agreements. We are not always able to enter into a supply agreement for certain raw materials. When we are able to do so, we face the risk that the price of the raw material covered by the contract may decline during the term of the supply agreement. We face significant competition and may face more significant competition in the future. Our industry is highly competitive. Our competition includes numerous local and regional operators selling directly to customers, numerous distributors and several national competitors. Many of our competitors are privately-held companies that have cost structures that are lower than ours or that have lower financial-return requirements than we have. Competition is based primarily on brand name recognition, price, product quality, and customer service. Our competitors in the commercial, industrial, and institutional end-market include but are not limited to Ecolab Inc., Diversey, Inc., Arch Chemicals, Inc., RPM International, Inc., NCH Corporation, Rochester Midland Corporation, The Claire Manufacturing Company, and State Chemical Manufacturing Company. Many companies compete within the broader retail market for cleaning chemical products, including but not limited to Church & Dwight Co., Inc., Procter and Gamble, WD-40 Company, Reckitt Benckiser plc, S.C. Johnson & Sons, Inc., Sunshine Makers, Inc., and The Clorox Company. We also compete in the home improvement channel with pest control companies such as Bayer, A.G., Spectrum Brands, Inc., and The Scott’s Company. Competitors in the automotive original equipment aftermarkets include Excelda Manufacturing, CRC Industries, Inc., Ashland Inc., and Technical Chemical Company. Furthermore, barriers to entry and expansion in the industry are low, which may lead to additional competitive pressure in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that change in the source or intensity of competitive pressure in the industry will not result in reduced market share that could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. We may be unable to sustain our significant customer relationships. Our relationships with our largest customers depend on our ability to deliver high quality products and services. The loss of or substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by one or more of our largest customers could harm our sales and profitability. We have developed plans for reducing our cost structure if we were to lose one or more of our largest customers; however, we could not implement the actions contemplated by these plans immediately and we would incur substantial costs in doing so. The Home Depot is our largest single customer. It represented approximately 10%, 11%, and 10% of our 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements total net sales during the fiscal years ended August 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Although we have been supplying products to The Home Depot for many years, we do not have a written contract obligating The Home Depot to purchase our products. If we are unable to implement our growth strategy, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our strategy is to achieve profitable growth by, among other things, acquiring other product lines and businesses. Our ability to implement our growth strategy depends upon a variety of factors that are not within our control, including: • our ability to make profitable acquisitions; • our ability to integrate acquired companies and facilities into our existing operations; and • the availability of capital. We compete for acquisition opportunities with companies that have significantly greater financial resources than we have. Therefore, we may be unable to complete an acquisition that we believe could be important to our growth strategy because one of our competitors may be willing to pay more for a potential acquisition candidate or may be able to use its financial resources to acquire a potential acquisition candidate before we are able to obtain financing. The implementation of our growth strategy may place additional demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources and may increase the demands on our financial systems and controls. Our ability to manage our growth successfully may require us to continue to improve and expand these resources, systems and controls. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our growth, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our growth strategy requires that we make expenditures in connection with the acquisition of other product lines and companies. We will be required to seek additional sources of financing as we pursue our growth strategy, which may include issuing debt or equity securities. We cannot predict the amount of our expenditures in connection with our growth strategy because opportunities for implementing our growth strategy arise unexpectedly. Our need for additional financing may place us at a disadvantage in competing for acquisitions. When a future acquisition opportunity arises, we will be required to evaluate the sources of financing, which may be limited on short notice, and the terms of the financing available at the time. Certain sources of financing may have a dilutive effect on shareholders existing equity positions. If we cannot find financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to make the acquisition. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and we may be exposed to substantial environmental, health, and safety costs and liabilities. As noted above, our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and use of our products. Regulation of our products and operations continues to increase with more stringent standards, including evolving climate change standards, causing increased costs of operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third party locations, and past activities. We have established reserves for environmental remediation activities and liabilities where appropriate. The cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto), however, cannot be predicted with certainty. These reserves may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions, changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, our potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not previously been established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital and other ongoing expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the failure to comply with our obligations under the environmental laws and regulations could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, obligations to pay damages or other costs, and injunctions or other orders, including orders to cease operations. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at our properties could adversely affect our ability to sell property, receive full value for a property, use a property as collateral for a loan, or obtain or maintain financing. We are currently a party to federal and state administrative proceedings arising under federal and state laws enacted for the protection of the environment where a state or federal agency or a private party alleges that hazardous substances generated by us have been discharged into the environment and a state or federal agency is requiring a cleanup of soil and/or groundwater pursuant to federal or state superfund laws. In each of these proceedings in which we have been named as a party that allegedly generated hazardous substances that were transported to a waste site owned and operated by another party, either (1) we are one of many other identified generators who have reached an agreement on the allocation of costs for cleanup among the various generators and our potential liability is not material; (2) we have been identified as a potential generator and the sites have been remediated by the EPA or by a state for a cost that is not material; or (3) other generators have cleaned up the site and have not pursued a claim against us and our liability, if any, would not be material. We own and operate property located on Seaboard Industrial Boulevard in Atlanta, Georgia where we have been named as a potentially responsible party. We and the current and former owners of adjoining properties have agreed to share the expected costs and responsibilities of implementing a Corrective Action Plan, approved in 2004, under the Georgia Hazardous Site Response Act (“HSRA”) to periodically monitor property along a nearby stream for a period of five years, which ended in December 2009. Monitoring actions will continue until the Georgia Environmental Protection Division (the “EPD”) notifies the Company that such activities are no longer necessary. Further, we have executed a Consent Order with the EPD covering this remediation. On November 23, 2009, the EPD approved the Corrective Action Plan submitted by the Company to address the subsurface contamination north of Seaboard Industrial Boulevard. The Company continues to actively remediate subsurface contamination at this site in compliance with the approved Corrective Action Plan. In May 2007, we accrued an undiscounted pre-tax liability of $5.0 million representing our best estimate of costs associated with subsurface remediation, primarily to remove contaminants from soil underlying one of our manufacturing facilities, and other related environmental issues. While over approximately the next twenty years Zep could expend an amount ranging up to $10.0 million on these efforts, management’s best estimate of remediation costs continues to be $5.0 million. To date, we have expended approximately $2.0 million of the $5.0 million reserve established in May 2007. Further sampling, engineering studies, and/or changes in regulatory requirements could cause us to revise the current estimate. We arrived at the current estimates on the basis of studies prepared by independent third party environmental consulting firms. The actual cost of remediation will vary depending upon the 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements results of additional testing and geological studies, the success of initial remediation efforts in the first five years addressing the most significant areas of contamination, the rate at which site conditions may change, and the requirements of the EPD. Amrep is currently a party to federal and state administrative proceedings arising under federal and state laws enacted for the protection of the environment where a state or federal agency or a private party alleges that hazardous substances generated by Amrep have been discharged into the environment and a state or federal agency is requiring a cleanup of soil and/or groundwater pursuant to federal or state superfund laws. In each of these proceedings in which Amrep has been named as a party that allegedly generated hazardous substances that were transported to a waste site owned and operated by another party, either (1) Amrep is one of many other identified generators who have reached an agreement on the allocation of costs for cleanup among the various generators and Amrep’s potential liability is not material, or (2) Amrep has been identified as a potential generator but has been indemnified by its waste broker and transporter. Amrep’s primary manufacturing location in Marietta, Georgia is the only active site involving property which Amrep owns with respect to which Amrep has been named as a potentially responsible party. With regard to this location, Amrep is responsible for the expected costs of implementing an Amended Corrective Action Plan that was submitted in March 2009 under HSRA, the approval of which is still pending. The EPD is reviewing the Amended Corrective Action Plan and will determine whether additional actions are necessary and, if so, for what period of time. As of August 31, 2010, the liabilities presented within Zep’s Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect an undiscounted, pre-tax liability of approximately $11.7 million, which represents Zep’s best estimate of costs associated with the aforementioned Amended Corrective Action Plan, primarily to remediate contaminants in soil and ground water underlying the Marietta manufacturing facility and affected adjacent properties, and other related environmental issues. While over approximately the next twenty years Zep could expend an amount ranging up to $18.0 million on these efforts, management’s best estimate of remaining remediation costs continues to be $11.7 million. Further sampling, engineering studies, and/or changes in regulatory requirements could cause revision to the current estimate. The initially recorded $12.0 million estimate was derived on the basis of studies prepared by independent third party environmental consulting firms. To date, we have expended approximately $0.3 million of the initial $12.0 million reserve established in December 2009. The actual cost of remediation will vary depending upon the results of additional testing and geological studies, the success of initial remediation designed to address the most significant areas of contamination, the rate at which site conditions may change, and the requirements of the EPD. Additionally, Amrep previously conducted manufacturing operations at a property in Georgia that has since been sold. Pursuant to the terms of the sale, Amrep has retained environmental exposure that might arise from its previous use of this property. Management is preparing a plan to address the sub-surface contamination and, at this time, does not anticipate costs associated with future remediation efforts will be material. As of August 31, 2010, accruals associated with this effort totaled approximately $0.2 million. However, the actual cost of remediation could vary depending upon the results of additional testing and geological studies and the rate at which site conditions may change. Finally, management is preparing a plan to address the sub-surface contamination at a Texas manufacturing location owned by Amrep, and, at this time, does not anticipate the costs associated with future remediation efforts will be material. These estimates could change, however, based upon the response of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality to that plan. We use a variety of hazardous materials and chemicals in our manufacturing processes and in connection with maintenance work on our manufacturing facilities. Because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements health-related claims or removal or re-treatment of such substances. In addition, although we have developed environmental, health, and safety programs for our employees, including measures to protect our employees from exposure to hazardous substances, and conduct regular assessments at our facilities, we may be involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury as a result of occupational exposure to substances or other hazards at our current or former facilities. Due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such claims or lawsuits that may arise. If any such claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, were resolved against us, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may not properly execute, or realize anticipated benefits from, our ongoing strategic or other initiatives. Our success is partly dependent upon properly executing, and realizing the anticipated benefits from, our ongoing strategic growth initiatives (a discussion of which is provided within Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), our information technology initiatives, and other initiatives. These initiatives are primarily designed to increase our revenue and market share and to make us more efficient in the sales, manufacture, and distribution of our products. These initiatives are complex; a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not providing the anticipated benefits, result in an interruption to our sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, or accounting functions. Furthermore, we have invested a significant amount of capital into a number of these initiatives and will invest a significant amount of capital into others, which might have been more efficiently used if the anticipated benefits are not fully realized. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including the requirement to reduce the book value of certain assets that must be evaluated for impairment. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage or increased organized labor activity. As of August 31, 2010, approximately 200 of our 2,350 employees were members of five unions in the United States and Europe. While we consider our relations with employees to be generally good, we cannot assure you that we will not experience work stoppages, strikes, or slowdowns in the future. In addition, we outsource to third parties the manufacturing of certain of our products that currently account for approximately 20% of our net sales volumes, and we cannot assure you that these third parties will not experience work stoppages, strikes or slowdowns in the future. A prolonged work stoppage, strike, or slowdown at any of our facilities or those of our third party suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, we cannot assure you that, upon expiration of any of our existing collective bargaining agreements, new agreements will be reached without union action or that any new agreement will be on terms satisfactory to us. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our non-union facilities will not become subject to labor union organizing efforts. If any current non-union facilities were to unionize, we would incur increased risk of work stoppages and possibly higher labor costs. If we are unable to keep and protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete may be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our brand names. We own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights we use in connection with the packaging, marketing, and distribution of our major products both in the United States and in other countries where our products are principally sold. In addition, we possess trade secret product formulations and other product information, some of which are patented, which are competitively sensitive. Intellectual property protection is important to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we operate, 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our intellectual property rights may be substantial. We cannot be certain that we will be able to assert our intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our brand names in the marketplace. Any infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a diversion of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. Others may claim that our business or products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Recent California legislation, called the “Green Chemistry Initiative”, regulates products that contain chemicals deemed to exhibit a “hazard trait” such as carcinogenicity, toxicity or mutagenicity. As a result of this legislation, we may be required to disclose certain of our proprietary product formulations, the identity of the chemicals used in certain of our products and chemical and market data with respect to certain of our products to the California Department of Toxic Substance Control (the “DTSC”). We intend to request protective treatment for any proprietary confidential business information that we are required to disclose to DTSC. However, DTSC has the discretion to deny a claim of trade secret status. If it does so, we may lose trade-secret protection for the formulation. Loss of trade-secret protection for a product formulation could enable our competitors to duplicate the product. Our failure to protect our trademarks and trade names, or any adverse judgment with respect to infringement of others’ intellectual property rights, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If our products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or become adulterated, we may need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured. If we improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled our products or if they become adulterated, we may be required to recall the affected products. Our quality control procedures relating to the raw materials, including packaging, that we receive from third-party suppliers or our quality control procedures relating to our products after our products are formulated and packaged may not be sufficient. We have previously initiated product recalls, and widespread product recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We may also be liable if the use of any of our products causes injury, and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. We may be required to record non-cash charges for impairment of our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits from the transactions that gave rise to the goodwill and other intangible assets. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets were approximately $84.0 million as of August 31, 2010, or approximately 24.5% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $53.8 million as of August 31, 2010, or 15.7% of our total assets. Goodwill and net identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and, in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other, will be reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. Some of the products and services we sell to our customers are dependent upon laws and regulations, and changes to such laws or regulations could impact the demand for our products and services. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a non-cash charge to results of operations. Although we have never recorded impairment charges related to our intangible assets, it is possible, depending on future circumstances, that we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Reliance on a third-party contract manufacturer may result in disruption to part of our business. In connection with our recent acquisition of products from Waterbury Companies, Inc., we contracted with Waterbury for the manufacture of the acquired products for an extended transition period. We do not have direct control over the management or business of Waterbury, except indirectly through the terms of a transition services agreement. Should Waterbury not be able to fulfill its obligations to us under the transition services agreement, our business may be disrupted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure of the spin-off to qualify as a tax-free transaction could result in substantial liability. Acuity Brands, Inc., our former parent corporation, received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that, among other things, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) pursuant to which we became an independent, public company, qualifies as tax-free to Acuity Brands, us, and Acuity Brands stockholders for United States federal income tax purposes under Section 355 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the Internal Revenue Service, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Acuity Brands will not be able to rely on the ruling. Moreover, the Internal Revenue Service will not rule on whether a distribution of shares satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. Rather, the private letter ruling is based upon representations by Acuity Brands that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. We received an opinion from King & Spalding LLP, then counsel to Acuity Brands and us, to the effect that, with respect to the requirements referred to above on which the Internal Revenue Service will not rule, those requirements will be satisfied. The opinion is based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Acuity Brands and us which, if untrue or incomplete in any material respect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and the Internal Revenue Service or the courts may not agree with the opinion. If the spin-off failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, a substantial corporate tax would be payable by Acuity Brands, measured by the difference between (1) the aggregate fair market value of the shares of our common stock on the date of the spin-off and (2) Acuity Brands’ adjusted tax basis in the shares of our common stock on the date of the spin-off. The corporate level tax would be payable by Acuity Brands. However, we have agreed under certain circumstances to indemnify Acuity Brands for this tax liability. This indemnification obligation, if triggered, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, under the applicable Treasury regulations, each member of Acuity Brands’ consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including us) is severally liable for such tax liability. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as tax-free, Acuity Brands nevertheless could incur a substantial corporate tax liability under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, if 50 percent or more of our stock or the stock of Acuity Brands were to be acquired as part of a “plan (or a series of related transactions)” that includes the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions of the stock of Acuity Brands or of our stock that occur within two years before or after the spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan, although Acuity Brands may be able to rebut that presumption. If such an acquisition of the stock of Acuity Brands or of our stock triggers the application of Section 355(e), Acuity Brands would recognize taxable gain as described above, but the spin-off would generally remain tax-free to the Acuity Brands stockholders. If acquisitions of our stock trigger the application of Section 355(e), we would be obligated to indemnify Acuity Brands for the resulting corporate-level tax liability. This indemnification obligation would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Risks Related to our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and you may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of our common stock has in the recent past been, and may in the future be, highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. This volatility may occur for many reasons, including for reasons unrelated to our performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by our customers, competitors, or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as general economic and industry conditions. Additional factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall include, but are not limited to, the following: • variations in our quarterly results; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new products or services or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel or key groups of personnel; • the gain or loss of significant orders; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • the disruption of supply and/or price of key raw materials; • significant changes in regulatory requirements; • increased litigation resulting from product or employee claims; • adverse developments concerning environmental matters; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our stock; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole; and • the dilution of our earnings per share caused by our acquisition of another company or product line or because of our issuance of additional shares of our common stock or shares of a series of preferred stock or debt securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and rights plan may discourage takeovers. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may make more difficult or expensive or that may discourage a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our Board of Directors. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • classify our Board of Directors into three groups, so that stockholders elect only one-third of the Board each year; • permit stockholders to remove directors only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our voting shares; • permit a special stockholders’ meeting to be called only by a majority of the Board of Directors; • do not permit stockholders to take action except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders; • require stockholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to our Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting; • permit our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Board may determine; • require the vote of the holders of at least 80% of our voting shares for stockholder amendments to our bylaws; and • require, for the approval of a business combination with stockholders owning 5% or more of our voting shares, the vote of at least 50% of our voting shares not owned by such stockholder, unless certain “fair price” requirements are met or the business combination is approved by our continuing directors. The preferred stock purchase rights attached to our shares of common stock, in effect, prevent a person or group from acquiring more than 15% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding at any time without obtaining prior approval from our Board of Directors, to be granted at the Board’s sole discretion. In addition, Delaware law generally restricts mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock, unless the transaction or the 15% acquisition is approved in advance by our Board of Directors. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, and the preferred stock purchase rights could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even though a majority of our stockholders may consider such proposals, if effected, desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of our Board of Directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market value of our common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts or speculation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 