ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks could affect (and in some cases have affected) the Company’s actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from estimates or expectations reflected in certain forward-looking statements: The Company’s substantial indebtedness may adversely affect its financial health, its ability to obtain financing in the future, and its ability to react to changes in its business. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had an aggregate principal amount of $2,800.2 million of outstanding debt. Because of the Company’s substantial debt, the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be restricted in the future. The Company is also exposed to the risk of increased interest costs because approximately $181 million of its debt is at variable rates of interest. A significant portion of the Company’s cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes. In 2010, the Company estimates it will pay between $170 million and $190 million in interest on its outstanding debt obligations. Additionally, the Company’s Credit Agreement dated May 16, 2007, as amended (the “Credit Agreement”) and the indentures governing its 9.5% Senior Notes due 2017 and 9.5% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 (the “Indentures”) contain covenants that prohibit or restrict, among other things, the disposal of assets, the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including guarantees), payment of dividends, loans or advances and certain other types of transactions. The Credit Agreement also requires compliance with a maximum consolidated secured leverage ratio. The Company’s ability to comply in future periods with these covenants will depend on its ongoing financial and operating performance. The substantial debt and the restrictions under the Credit Agreement and the Indentures could limit the Company’s flexibility to respond to changing market conditions and competitive pressures. The material outstanding debt obligations and the restrictions may also leave the Company more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or its business, or unable to carry out capital expenditures that are necessary or important to its growth strategy and productivity improvement programs. The Company’s reliance on a large number of financial institutions for a significant portion of its cash requirements could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and cash flow. The Company has exposure to many companies in the financial services industry, particularly commercial and investment banks that participate in its revolving credit facilities and that are counterparties to the Company’s interest rate swaps and natural gas and currency hedges. The failure of these financial institutions, or their inability or unwillingness to fund the Company’s revolving credit facility or fulfill their obligations under swaps and hedges, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity position and cash flow. Significant increases in prices for raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Limitations in the availability of — and increases in — the costs of raw materials, including petroleum-based materials, energy, wood, transportation and other necessary goods and services, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. The Company is also limited in its ability to pass along such cost increases to customers, due to contractual provisions and competitive reasons. 10 Table of Contents There is no guarantee that the Company’s efforts to reduce costs, or to maintain current level run rates for realized cost synergies and operating efficiencies, will be successful. The Company utilizes a global continuous improvement initiative that uses statistical process control to help design and manage many types of activities, including production and maintenance. In addition, the Company has accelerated and achieved cost synergies and operating efficiencies resulting from the Altivity Transaction sooner than expected. The Company’s ability to implement successfully its business strategies and to realize anticipated savings, in addition to maintaining current level run rates for these cost synergies and operating efficiencies is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. If the Company cannot successfully implement the strategic cost reductions or other cost savings plans, or maintain current level run rates for realized cost synergies and operating efficiencies, it may not be able to continue to compete successfully against other manufacturers. In addition, any failure to generate the anticipated efficiencies and savings could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. If a material percentage of the ownership interests in the Company’s stockholders who own five percent or more of the Company’s common stock are sold or transferred, the Company’s ability to use its net operating losses to offset its future taxable income may be limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $1.3 billion of net operating losses (“NOLs”) available to offset future income for U.S. federal tax liability purposes. The Company’s ability to use such NOLs to offset income can be limited, however, if the Company undergoes an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”). In general, an ownership change occurs whenever the aggregate percentage of the Company’s common stock owned directly or indirectly by its stockholders who own five percent or more of the Company’s common stock (“Significant Stockholders”) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest aggregate percentage of the Company’s common stock owned directly or indirectly by such Significant Stockholders at any time during the preceding three years. In addition, under certain circumstances, issuances, sales or other dispositions or acquisitions of the ownership interests in the Company’s Significant Stockholders can be deemed an ownership change for the Company. Although the Stockholders Agreement dated as of July 7, 2007 among the Company, the Coors family trusts and foundation, Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Fund V Limited Partnership, Old Town, S.A. (formerly known as EXOR Group, S.A.), Field Holdings, Inc., and certain affiliates of TPG Capital L.P. contains certain restrictions and limitations on purchasing additional shares of the Company’s common stock or selling the shares of the Company’s common stock owned by such Significant Stockholders as of the date of the agreement, the Company has little control over changes in the ownership interests of such Significant Stockholders. If an ownership change occurs, Section 382 establishes an annual limitation on the amount of deferred tax assets attributable to previously incurred NOLs that may be used to offset taxable income in future years. As a result, the Company’s tax liability for such years could increase significantly. The magnitude of the annual limitation on the use of deferred tax assets and the effect of such limitation on the Company is difficult to assess and depends in part on the market value of the Company at the time of the ownership change and prevailing interest rates. Work stoppages and other labor relations matters may make it substantially more difficult or expensive for the Company to manufacture and distribute its products, which could result in decreased sales or increased costs, either of which would negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 51% of the Company’s workforce is represented by labor unions, whose goals and objectives may differ significantly from the Company’s. The Company may not be able to successfully negotiate new union contracts covering the employees at its various sites without work stoppages or labor 11 Table of Contents difficulties. These events may also occur as a result of other factors. A prolonged disruption at any of the Company’s facilities due to work stoppages or labor difficulties could have a material adverse effect on its net sales, margins and cash flows. In addition, if new union contracts contain significant increases in wages or other benefits, the Company’s margins would be adversely impacted. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights, which could harm its future success and competitive position. The Company’s future success and competitive position depend in part upon its ability to obtain and maintain protection for certain proprietary carton and packaging machine technologies used in its value-added products, particularly those incorporating the Cap-Sac, DI-NA-CAL, Fridge Vendor, IntegraPak, Kitchen Master, MicroFlex Q, MicroRite, Peel Pak, Quilt Wave, Qwik Crisp, Soni-Lok, Soni-Seal, The Yard Master and Z-Flute technologies. Failure to protect the Company’s existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or may require it to license other companies’ intellectual property rights. It is possible that any of the patents owned by the Company may be invalidated, rendered unenforceable, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others or any of its pending or future patent applications may not be issued within the scope of the claims sought by the Company, if at all. Further, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to the Company’s technologies, duplicate its technologies or design around its patents, and steps taken by the Company to protect its technologies may not prevent misappropriation of such technologies. Competition for sales of the Company’s products could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. The Company competes with other manufacturers, both domestically and internationally. The Company’s products also compete with other manufacturers’ CUK board and other substrates, SBS and recycled clay-coated news (“CCN”). Substitute products also include plastic, shrink film and corrugated containers. In addition, while the Company has long-term relationships with many of its customers, the underlying contracts may be re-bid or renegotiated from time to time, and the Company may not be successful in renewing on favorable terms or at all. The Company works to maintain market share through efficiency, product innovation and strategic sourcing to its customers; however, pricing and other competitive pressures may occasionally result in the loss of a customer relationship. The Company is subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and costs to comply with such laws and regulations, or any liability or obligation imposed under such laws or regulations, could negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to a broad range of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing discharges to air, soil and water, the management, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of hazardous substances, and the health and safety of employees. Additionally, the Company cannot currently assess the impact that future emission standards, climate control initiatives and enforcement practices will have on the Company’s operations and capital expenditure requirements. Environmental liabilities and obligations may result in significant costs, which could negatively impact the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 15 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included herein under “Item 8., Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The Company’s working capital, cash flow and profitability could be adversely impacted by the current economic downturn, changes in governmental regulations, and the global consolidation of the businesses of the Company’s customers. Reduced availability of credit, lower profitability resulting from the current economic downturn, and increased costs as a result of changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect the ability of some of the Company’s customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. This could negatively impact the Company’s ability to collect receivables in a timely manner and to obtain raw materials 12 Table of Contents and supplies. In addition, increased global consolidation of the Company’s customer base could lead to increased pressure on the Company to concede to less favorable price and payment terms. Without the Company’s ability to counter such customer concessions by obtaining favorable price and payment term concessions from its own suppliers, the Company’s working capital, cash flow and profitability could be negatively impacted. The Company’s cash flows may also be adversely impacted by the Company’s pension funding obligations. The Company’s pension funding obligations are dependent upon multiple factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. The Company has unfunded obligations under its domestic and foreign defined benefit pension plans, and the funded status of these plans is dependent upon various factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of certain market interest rates and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. Unfavorable returns on the plan assets or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which would reduce the cash available for the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 