1A. Risk Factors,” and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are the leading global provider of utility storage systems for mid-sized to large enterprises, financial services firms, cloud computing service providers, consumer-oriented Internet/Web 2.0 companies, and government entities. Utility storage is a category of data storage systems built for utility computing, an emerging approach to information technology, or IT, architecture that enables organizations to build virtual datacenters to support cloud computing service delivery models. As organizations move away from the use of physically dedicated resources to a lower-cost shared model, we help organizations build infrastructures that support the delivery of cloud-based services both internally, and at the scale required by service providers that make a business of selling such services to their external customers. The category of utility storage exists as a segment of the larger global market for Fibre Channel and Internet Small Computer System Interface, or iSCSI, open storage area networks, where we compete with larger and more established companies. Utility computing is the deployment of virtual computing at scale, an architectural approach that was developed to allow organizations to create cost-effective virtualized IT infrastructures for flexible workload consolidation using server virtualization technologies, utility storage systems, and blade servers (high-density, self-contained computer servers designed to optimize and minimize physical space). We believe that utility computing enables organizations to deliver services more rapidly, flexibly, reliably, and economically than they would otherwise be able to achieve through traditional approaches such as mainframe and distributed computing models. New service delivery models made possible by utility computing allow IT organizations to deliver software and hardware as a service, both internally and at the scale required by service providers. An important element of utility computing, storage virtualization technologies work by abstracting storage resources then presenting a logical view of those resources that is independent from the actual underlying physical assets within a storage system. This decoupling of physical and logical resources enables the pooling of available storage assets to improve the efficiency and availability of these storage assets. IT organizations are increasingly adopting storage virtualization in their datacenters to improve storage resource utilization and reduce the amount of energy required to power and cool datacenter equipment. We believe that our utility storage systems help organizations build storage infrastructures that are simple, efficient, and scalable to meet performance and high availability demands at a lower cost than traditional storage vendors. Our enterprise-class storage systems feature a clustered design that supports comprehensive multi- 3 Table of Contents tenancy and was developed to be self-configuring, self-optimizing, self-monitoring, self-healing, highly capacity efficient, and massively scalable. We believe that our storage systems provide substantial benefits for our customers building virtual datacenters for the delivery of enterprise IT as a utility service, including reducing administrative costs and provisioning complexity, improving capacity utilization, easing power and cooling requirements, providing the necessary scalability to support continuous growth, and supporting the agility to adapt rapidly to meet changing business needs. Our Strategy Our mission is to provide storage systems that are simple and efficient. Our utility storage systems are designed to be easy to manage (simple), to deliver efficient resource utilization (efficient), and to expand as needed to reliably address the needs of organizations as they grow (scalable). Key elements of our strategy include: • Addressing the Needs of the Virtual Datacenter and Cloud Computing. We believe that our utility storage products enhance service delivery and storage economics by offering higher performance levels and increasing the efficiency of highly virtualized environments at a lower total cost of ownership than traditional storage systems. Our utility storage systems are designed to enable customers to build highly virtualized infrastructures to support both internal and external service delivery while lowering the total lifetime cost of ownership for their data storage. We intend to continue making a concerted effort to increase market awareness of the benefits of cloud computing by targeting organizations that can benefit from virtual datacenters built for external services delivery and for the delivery of enterprise IT as a utility service within the organization. • Helping Customers “Do More with Less.” Our storage systems are designed to help our customers “do more with less” by enabling them to reduce the overall capital expenditure associated with their storage capacity and infrastructure purchases as well as the operating expenditure associated with ongoing administration and maintenance of their storage infrastructure. We believe that our emphasis on doing more with less is particularly important in the context of the recent economic downturn, and we intend to continue making this a key element of our strategy going forward. • Maintaining and Extending Our Technology Leadership in Utility Storage. Our technological innovations include system design and architecture, hardware design, and software development. We designed our utility storage systems from the ground up to meet the specific needs of highly virtualized environments and we created the category of storage known as utility storage to address the needs of emerging utility computing architectures. Our systems feature a highly clustered architecture designed to support multi-tenancy by delivering high performance and availability levels that enable our customers to consolidate with confidence. In addition, we are regarded as a pioneer of thin provisioning, a storage virtualization technology that decouples logical and physical capacity to increase utilization, and we have also made a substantial investment in the development of autonomic storage technologies, which make our utility storage systems self-configuring, self-optimizing, self-monitoring, and self-healing. As a leader and pioneer in multi-tenancy as well as thin, green, and autonomic storage technologies, we intend to maintain and extend our technology leadership position by continuing to invest heavily in our research and development efforts. • Building Substantial Repeat Business with Existing Customers. We have built substantial levels of repeat business based on customer experience of the performance, technical, and cost benefits of our storage systems. We intend to continue targeting existing customers for repeat business by selling additional products to meet their needs as their businesses grow and their data requirements increase, and as early adopters of our technologies find their utility storage systems reaching end of life. In addition, we intend to pursue further penetration of our existing customer base by continuing to deliver broad and interoperable storage systems suitable for a wide variety of deployments with a focus on achieving high levels of customer satisfaction. 4 Table of Contents • Expanding Our Customer Base through Direct Customer Relationships in Core Markets. In our core markets, we are focused on developing relationships directly with large aggregators of storage demand through our direct sales force and customer service personnel. Because of the importance of the data that our customers entrust to our products, we believe that it is important to maintain a direct relationship with them. We believe that maintaining and expanding our physical presence in local markets has been and will continue to be essential to maintaining good relationships with our customers in these markets. We also believe that communication among our customers is both rapid and frequent. As our sales process is highly dependent on strong word-of-mouth recommendations, we intend to further invest in the expansion of our direct sales force and customer service organization, in order to maintain our customer relationships and continue to earn their strong recommendations. • Expanding Our Alliances and Our Network of Channel Partners, Resellers, and Authorized Service Providers to Support Growing Customer Base. We have developed alliances with a variety of companies that provide servers and server virtualization and network infrastructure components. We intend to maintain and expand our network of alliances to enable our customers to more easily integrate our utility storage products within their IT infrastructures. We have also developed a global network of channel partners, resellers, and authorized service providers to sell, support, and service our products in markets in which we do not have a direct physical presence. We intend to continue to expand this network of channel partners, resellers, and authorized service providers to maintain and improve the quality and responsiveness of the sales and support services that our customers require in those markets. Our Customers Our target customers are primarily organizations for which serving information is mission-critical, including external service providers (for example, Managed Service Providers, or MSPs and Hardware as a Service/Software as a Service, or HaaS/SaaS providers) and internal service bureaus (for example, IT organizations within enterprises and government agencies). We believe that both groups can benefit from delivering services based on a utility computing model that leverages a low-cost, shared, virtualized infrastructure for workload consolidation and flexible resource allocation. As of March 31, 2010, we have sold over 1,600 utility storage systems to more than 600 mid-sized to large enterprises, financial services firms, cloud computing service providers, consumer-oriented Internet/Web 2.0 companies, and government entities worldwide. • Mid-Sized to Large Enterprises. Across the spectrum of mid-sized to large enterprises, our customers are primarily IT organizations that have transformed (or are in the process of transforming) themselves into internal service bureaus that leverage shared, virtualized infrastructures for workload consolidation and flexible resource allocation. Many of these companies are building virtual datacenters to enable cloud-based internal service delivery. This customer category includes companies such as Carphone Warehouse Group and Pier 1 Imports. • Financial Services Firms. Our financial services customers include investment banks, stock exchanges, and hedge funds that depend on the high performance and high availability of our utility storage systems to run their transaction-heavy operations. This customer segment also includes commercial banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions that are transforming their datacenters into internal service bureaus. These customers include Credit Suisse and NYSE Group. • Cloud Computing Service Providers. Our cloud computing service provider customers include companies with a business-to-business focus, such as infrastructure and application hosting providers, MSPs, HaaS/SaaS providers, and business transaction/business information service providers. Many of these customers are also Cloud-Agile partners. These customers include Savvis and Cox Communications. • Consumer-Oriented Internet/Web 2.0 Companies. Our consumer-oriented Internet/Web 2.0 customers have a business-to-consumer focus and include Web 2.0 companies, social networking companies, and 5 Table of Contents other primarily Internet-based businesses serving the needs of a large number of consumers, many using a cloud computing delivery model. These customers include MySpace.com, Careerbuilder.com, and GoDaddy.com. • Government Entities. Our government end-customers include the United States Department of Justice, the United States Commerce Department, and the Department of Energy. Orders placed with our resellers by government end-customers may generally be terminated unilaterally by the government end-customer or may be subject to additional conditions not typically found in our other end-customer contracts. During fiscal 2010 and 2009, approximately 11% and 9% of our product revenue resulted from sales by our resellers to government end-customers, respectively. While in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, no customer represented more than 10% of our total revenue; in the first and third quarter of fiscal 2010, first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 and the first quarter of fiscal 2008, 10%, 12%, 20%, 12% and 25% of our revenue, respectively, was attributable to sales to single customers. We do not have agreements in place with these customers, or any other customer, that obligate such customers to long-term purchase or repeat order requirements. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In fiscal 2010, we derived 20% of our revenue from shipments to customer locations outside the United States. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of revenue by geographic area. Our Technologies and Products We design our utility storage systems to address the limitations of traditional storage arrays by delivering what we believe is a uniquely simple and efficient platform to enhance the agility and efficiency of virtualized datacenters. Our proprietary storage system architecture is designed to enable non-disruptive and massive scalability over time within a single, multi-tenant, tiered storage system. The purpose of this design is to allow customers to scale their storage systems efficiently and cost-effectively to support continuous or rapid growth while also enabling them to adapt quickly to changing business needs. Our products and technologies can be divided into the following categories: • Multi-Tenant, Clustered System Architecture. Our systems are designed to support multi-tenancy while offering a low initial cost of ownership and scaling non-disruptively as customer needs grow over time. Built-in support for mixed workloads enables the system to serve the needs of multiple applications and multiple users simultaneously and from a single system. Support for multiple drive classes within the same array—including Nearline (Enterprise SATA), Fibre Channel, and Solid State Drives, or SSDs,—enables customers to consolidate data with varying service level requirements onto the same storage system for cost and performance optimization as well as a reduction in Storage Area Networks, or SAN, infrastructure and administration. Our clustered controller architecture also allows our utility storage systems to be configured to target demands for high availability. This architecture is designed to tolerate component failures in hardware, including individual controller nodes, without customers losing access to their stored data. To maximize these architectural capabilities, we also offer sophisticated software applications, including copy-on-write snapshot technology, to protect customers from single-system and site-wide failures over both short and long geographic distances. Our systems are thus designed to allow customers to maintain data availability, minimize the impact of component failures, and allow faster recovery if application failures require rapid retrieval of previous copies of data. • Autonomic Storage Technologies. Our systems are designed to be self-managing: self-configuring, self-optimizing, self-monitoring, and self-healing. For example, our storage systems offer rapid and autonomic provisioning of storage volumes of varied service levels and sizes without pre-planning and in just a few seconds—as compared to minutes, hours, or days with legacy systems. Our software autonomically load-balances data on physical disks to optimize application performance on an ongoing basis. In addition, our software has the ability to monitor the system and then apply user-specified 6 Table of Contents policies either automatically or on-demand in order to non-disruptively distribute and redistribute application volumes across storage tiers of varying quality of service (QoS) for cost and performance optimization. Built-in error detection, advanced error isolation, and automated correction algorithms are designed into our systems in order to ensure that high levels of performance are maintained, even under hardware failure scenarios such as component outages or multiple disk failures. • Thin and Green Technologies. Our systems are designed to allow customers to significantly improve utilization of physical resources and reduce power requirements by minimizing use of the pre-allocated, unused storage capacity that is a common problem with legacy provisioning methodologies employed by traditional storage systems. Our thin provisioning software lets an application consume only the storage it actually needs, only as it requires that capacity to write data. This “dedicate-on-write” approach differs from the traditional “dedicate-on-allocation” approach of legacy storage systems, which require capacity to be allocated in advance. Because our systems allow storage to be consumed only as it is actually used, a greater percentage of the overall system capacity can be used, which increases capacity utilization rates and reduces the amount of physical storage that customers must purchase, house, administer, power, and cool. In addition, we also offer our customers the ability to convert their existing traditional volumes to this more capacity-efficient approach. Known as thin conversion, this process takes place non-disruptively by using a combination of software and built-in hardware acceleration mechanisms. During thin conversion, allocated but unused capacity is removed as data is converted from the legacy volume to a new thin volume that uses our “dedicate-on-write” technology. • Technologies that Enhance Server Virtualization. We believe that server virtualization technologies have the potential to deliver significant cost savings, efficiency gains, and service level increases within the datacenter. However, virtual server deployments can also place heavy performance loads on storage and demand large amounts of pre-dedicated disk capacity that can detract from these benefits. We believe that the failure of traditional storage to address performance and other technical demands of these new virtualized server environments routinely detracts from potential return on investment of deploying hypervisor technology. Our utility storage systems are designed to enhance the simplicity, agility, and efficiency of virtualized environments—for example, by delivering high levels of performance and resiliency, by easing administration time associated with provisioning and managing storage in a virtualized environment, by enabling greater virtual machine consolidation (and therefore savings associated with buying fewer servers), and by reducing underlying storage requirements (through eliminating the need for pre-dedicated capacity). We believe that these advantages can enable customers to improve their server virtualization return on investment, as compared to using traditional storage. Our Utility Storage Systems Our utility storage systems feature a uniquely architected, tightly clustered, integrated hardware platform that includes a proprietary operating system and a range of software applications. Our utility storage systems are designed to save our customers money in the following ways: • By improving resource utilization and reducing the amount of physical storage capacity required, allowing customers to purchase fewer storage arrays. • By reducing the energy and floor space required by customers to power, cool, and house their storage. • By reducing the amount of time and resources that customers dedicate to the implementation and ongoing management of their storage. 7 Table of Contents InServ Storage Servers We believe that our 3PAR® InServ® Storage Servers help customers build a data storage infrastructure that can quickly meet their changing business needs at a lower total cost than traditional storage systems. We designed our family of InServ Storage Servers to deliver high levels of performance and consolidation simply and affordably, and we believe that this enables our customers to avoid the need to overprovision capacity or resort to complex administration processes to increase resource performance and utilization. We believe that our InServ Storage Servers, which are also designed to support multi-tenancy reliably, enable customers to consolidate data from multiple applications and user groups (with varying service level and performance requirements) onto a single storage array for greater cost savings. By sharing the same tightly clustered, cache-coherent, load-balanced, and modular architecture, all InServ Storage Servers are built to offer an agile and efficient tiered storage platform for resilient utility and cloud computing. InSpire Architecture—All of our storage servers feature our proprietary 3PAR InSpire® Architecture, which we developed to deliver a simple yet powerful storage array for open systems. Central to this design is a high-bandwidth, low-latency backplane that unifies components into a highly scalable and autonomically load-balanced cluster. The core hardware elements of our InSpire Architecture include our 3PAR Gen3 application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, which enables hardware-assisted detection of allocated but unused capacity designed to work in conjunction with our thin software products (also known as Thin Built In™), our proprietary full-mesh backplane with storage controller nodes, host bus adaptors for server and disk connectivity, drive chassis, drive magazines, and disk drives. All active hardware components can be configured redundantly within the system and the entire clustered storage architecture is managed as a single entity. We believe that our InSpire Architecture is unique, as it enables all workloads to be distributed and shared across all system resources in a massively parallel fashion. This design is intended to support multi-tenancy, deliver high and predictable levels of performance for all workloads, and promote high utilization of purchased resources. Our InSpire Architecture also features controller nodes that allow each storage volume to be active on all of the controller nodes at the same time to support high availability, scalability, and simplified management. InServ T-Class Storage Servers—We designed the 3PAR InServ T-Class to address the needs of large and highly demanding enterprise and cloud computing storage infrastructures. All T-Class Storage Servers use the 3PAR InSpire Architecture featuring the Gen3 ASIC with Thin Built In. This silicon-based thin technology is built into the system hardware to increase capacity utilization while maintaining high service levels. InServ F-Class Storage Servers—We designed the 3PAR InServ F-Class to address the technical limitations of traditional midrange storage arrays by offering features and benefits typically exclusive to high-end arrays. Our F-Class Storage Servers incorporate the same technologies as our T-Class Storage Servers, but in a scaled-down, quad-controller capable system. System Management Tools Our 3PAR InForm® Operating System and associated management tools incorporate automation of storage configuration, provisioning, and management across all of our InServ Storage Server models. The virtualization and automation capabilities built into our operating system are designed to deliver rapid and autonomic configuration, automated provisioning, ongoing self-optimization, and secure protection of data across a global IT environment—simply and economically. InForm Operating System—We designed the 3PAR InForm Operating System to simplify storage management through advanced virtualization and autonomic storage management capabilities, and by providing a unified operating system that works across all InServ product lines. As the foundation of our proprietary suite 8 Table of Contents of server software, the InForm Operating System was developed to eliminate array planning, to provide instant, application-tailored provisioning, and to deliver a storage infrastructure that is self-configuring, self-optimizing, self-healing, and self-monitoring. The use of a single operating system across all lines of our storage servers is also intended to minimize training time related to storage management and to provide interoperability of management and remote replication software for data protection. The InForm Operating System now includes our Persistent Cache, which was designed to ensure that “always on” application and virtual server environments are able to handle an unplanned controller failure. Persistent Cache was developed to eliminate the substantial performance penalties associated with traditional arrays and allow our systems to maintain required service levels even in the event of a cache or controller node failure. Software Applications We also provide our customers with a number of supplementary software applications, either bundled with the InForm Operating System or sold under perpetual license agreements that customers can buy either with or after the initial system purchase. The following descriptions represent a selective sampling of our available software offerings, grouped by key technology area: Thin Technologies • Thin Provisioning. Our Thin Provisioning software is designed to improve storage resource utilization by enabling customers to purchase capacity only as applications actually require it for written data. We believe that this approach enables companies to scale their storage investments over time rather than having to estimate their storage needs and purchase all of their storage in advance, which leads to low utilization rates, unnecessary power and cooling expenditures, and which can result in the allocation of more capacity than a given project might ever actually need for written data. • Thin Conversion. Our Thin Conversion software offers the ability to take a conventional storage volume, remove allocated but unused space, and create a new, capacity-efficient Thin Provisioning volume on any of our storage systems. This process uses the Gen3 ASIC with Thin Built In to power thin conversion without causing perceptible system performance impact. • Thin Persistence and Thin Copy Reclamation. Our Thin Persistence software uses our unique virtualization mapping engine to reclaim space from deleted volumes, thus increasing capacity utilization. Our Thin Copy Reclamation software does the same for virtual copy snapshots and remote copies. These space-saving products are designed to help customers defer the cost of purchasing raw capacity to handle new data growth, thus lowering both capital and operating expenditures. Autonomic Configuration and Provisioning • Rapid Provisioning. A built-in feature of the InForm Operating System, Rapid Provisioning was designed to eliminate array planning by delivering instant, application-tailored provisioning. Rapid Provisioning manages storage provisioning intelligently and autonomically, and augments the massively parallel and granular distribution of data across internal system resources to assure high and predictable service levels for various workload types. • Autonomic Groups. Autonomic Groups is an additional InForm Operating System feature that builds on the efficiencies of Rapid Provisioning by eliminating manual repetition of commands, enabling customers to easily create host, volume, and domain groups to automate and expedite storage provisioning, monitoring, and data protection. Autonomic Groups is designed to increase the agility of clustered and virtual server environments by handling certain changes autonomically—intelligently, at a sub-system level, without administrator intervention. 9 Table of Contents Autonomic Data Movement, Performance Optimization, and Storage Tiering • Dynamic Optimization and Policy Advisor. Our Dynamic Optimization software was developed to give customers the ability to align application requirements with data QoS levels precisely, flexibly, and on demand to achieve optimal data service levels at a lower cost across all stages of the disk-based data lifecycle. Our Policy Advisor software adds intelligent analysis and enhanced automation features to Dynamic Optimization by analyzing how volumes on an InServ Storage Server use physical disk space and automatically making intelligent, non-disruptive adjustments to ensure optimal volume performance and capacity utilization. • Adaptive Optimization. Our Adaptive Optimization software is designed to optimize service levels for granular amounts of application data autonomically, on a large scale, by pairing that data with the most cost-efficient resource capable of meeting its particular service level. Data Protection and Disaster Recovery • Virtual Copy. Our Virtual Copy software is built on our thin copy technology and is designed to allow customers to affordably protect and share data from any application without impact on performance. ,The software consumes minimal physical capacity because it is reservationless and non-duplicative – that is, it refers to existing data rather than duplicating it elsewhere. We have integrated Virtual Copy with a variety of third party applications. These solutions, called Recovery Manger, are designed to ensure that snapshots taken of data stores are consistent, enable integration with backup products, and facilitate rapid application recovery. • Remote Copy. Our Remote Copy software is built on our thin copy technology and is designed to allow users to maintain data availability for business continuity by copying data from one InServ Storage Server to another in a remote location. Since Remote Copy is built on thin copy technology, it is capable of replicating both traditional and thin provisioned volumes. Remote Copy offers remote replication over short and long geographic distances with complete flexibility using midrange as well as high-end arrays. Data Resilience and Security • Virtual Domains. Our Virtual Domains software is designed to provide secure administrative separation of users and hosts within shared, virtualized environments. Like virtual private network software, Virtual Domains can deliver thousands of secure virtual private arrays within a single InServ Storage Server. • Virtual Lock. Our Virtual Lock software is designed to enable the secure retention of storage volumes for data governance and electronic discovery purposes. Manageability • Management Plug-In for VMware vCenter. Our Plug-In for VMware vCenter was developed to give VMware vSphere administrators enhanced visibility into storage resources and precise insight into how individual virtual machines are mapped to datastores and storage volumes. • Host Explorer. Our Host Explorer software is designed to automate host discovery and collection of detailed host configuration information in order to speed provisioning and simplify maintenance. • System Reporter. Our System Reporter software is designed to provide an easy-to-use, Web-based performance and capacity management tool that aggregates historical system data for one or more InServ Storage Servers. System Tuner. Our System Tuner software was developed to ensure optimal volume performance even as customers scale their systems and bring new applications online by autonomically detecting and eliminating hotspots and bottlenecks without disrupting applications, impacting service levels, or changing underlying volume characteristics such as RAID type. 10 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We market and sell our products and support services primarily through our direct sales force, but we also sell indirectly through channel partners and cloud computing service providers. Our sales and marketing team consisted of 238 employees as of March 31, 2010. Direct Sales: Our direct sales team, with assistance from our marketing team, sells directly to large commercial enterprises worldwide, as well as to limited public sector accounts in the United States, including federal and state government entities. We maintain sales operations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Singapore, India, China, South Korea Australia and Japan. Indirect Sales: Our indirect sales are through resellers and channel partners that primarily sell our products in markets where we do not have a significant direct sales presence, including non-English speaking countries. In addition to selling and marketing our products, our channel partners have been trained by us to provide installation on our behalf in their local markets. Furthermore, we rely largely on resellers to sell our products to public sector accounts in the United States, including federal and state government entities. We also engage resellers to transact commercial sales in limited situations in the United States. When selling through resellers, as opposed to channel partners, we provide the installation of our storage systems to the end-customer or contract these services to an authorized service provider partner. In addition, our Cloud-Agile partners also sell services based on our utility storage platform, which may result in additional business for us. Marketing and Product Management In addition to building brand awareness and broadly marketing our products, our marketing team actively supports our sales teams and processes. Our marketing activities include lead generation, tele-sales, advertising, website operations, direct marketing, public relations, product marketing, product management, and participation at technology conferences and trade shows. Customer Services We offer a variety of maintenance support programs depending on the needs of customer deployments. Our customer service and support programs involve hardware support, software support, and software upgrades on a “when-and-if available” basis for our InForm Operating System and other software applications. In addition, in April 2010 we introduced a new support level, called Mission-Critical support, which is designed to offer high priority support to customers willing to pay a premium for this enhanced service. Our customer services department includes support personnel located in California, the United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland, Singapore, India and Japan. Support personnel are available to respond 24 hours a day, every day of the year. We extend our support capabilities by qualifying and training authorized service providers and channel partners that can provide service and support to end-customers in locations where we do not provide direct support. We provide on-going support to our channel partners through support maintenance programs. Research and Development Continued investment in research and development is critical to our business. Because our utility storage systems are comprised of integrated hardware and software, our research and development organization includes both hardware and software engineers. We employ ASIC and storage systems engineers in the design, development, testing, and certification of our storage systems. We also employ software engineers in the design, development, and testing of our InForm Operating System and other software products. As of March 31, 2010, our research and development team consisted of 208 full-time employees: 186 located in Fremont, California; six in Woodinville, Washington; and 16 in Belfast, Northern Ireland. We test and certify our platform against a variety of third-party servers, operating systems, drivers, gateways, host bus adaptors, and SAN fabric components. We plan to continue to dedicate significant resources to these continued research and development efforts. As we continue to expand internationally, we may incur additional costs to ensure that our products conform to local laws and local product specifications. 11 Table of Contents Research and development expense totaled $47.6 million, $46.3 million, and $34.1 million for fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Manufacturing Our manufacturing strategy is to supply high quality products in a timely fashion to our customers, while making efforts to maximize our gross margins. We perform internally those manufacturing tasks that we believe cannot be outsourced and fulfilled more effectively by specialized manufacturing partners. Our manufacturing operation, located in our 56,000 square foot facility in Fremont, California, consists primarily of materials procurement, product assembly, product testing, quality assurance and global logistics. As of March 31, 2010, our manufacturing operations team consisted of 39 full-time employees. We also rely on a number of key suppliers in the manufacture and assembly of our products. These suppliers include Xyratex Technology Limited, or Xyratex, and Seagate Technology, or Seagate, from which we acquire our disk drives; Power-One, Inc., or Power-One, our supplier of power systems; and Renesas Technology Corp., or Renesas, our supplier of ASICs, which are a component of our controller nodes. In addition, we rely on AsteelFlash Group, or AsteelFlash, and Xyratex as contract manufacturers of our disk chassis. Our Competition The market for storage infrastructure is competitive and continually evolving. We compete in the data storage market against vendors that provide mid-range and high-end storage solutions. We expect competition to persist and intensify. Our main competitors that provide traditional monolithic storage arrays include EMC Corporation, or EMC, Hitachi Data Systems Corporation, or Hitachi, and IBM and their respective resellers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. Our main competitors that provide traditional modular storage arrays include EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company, NetApp Inc., or NetApp, Hitachi, IBM, Oracle Corporation, or Oracle, and Dell Inc., or Dell, as well as their respective resellers and OEMs. Two of these competitors, EMC and IBM, have released clustered modular storage systems that have some limited architectural similarities to our storage platform. As the storage market opportunity grows, we also expect competition from emerging private companies and networking and telecommunications equipment suppliers that increasingly compete with our product offerings. Many of our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products. Our competitors may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we do, including longstanding relationships with our current or potential customers. In addition, these companies may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new technologies and may be able to market and sell their products more effectively. Moreover, if one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We believe that the principal factors on which we compete are the ease of use and the scalability of our products, the total cost of ownership of our utility storage platform, and the quality of our customer service and support. The benefits of our products that we emphasize from a competitive perspective include our ability to: • Support comprehensive multi-tenancy effectively and with a low total cost of ownership • Deliver rapid and autonomic configuration and provisioning of storage volumes 12 Table of Contents • Autonomically load balance data on physical disks • Minimize the use of pre-allocated, unnecessary storage capacity • Efficiently allocate the virtual storage capacity required by an application • Scale non-disruptively within a single, tiered storage system • Configure our utility storage solutions to target demands for high availability • Eliminate the need for array-based professional services engagements Environmental Concerns We are committed to reducing both the energy requirements and the environmental impact of storage. For years we have been an industry leader in developing thin, green technologies that promote sustainability by increasing storage efficiency and reducing energy consumption. We also sponsor programs to promote energy efficiency and conservation and are an Endorser of the European Code of Conduct on Data Centres Energy Efficiency. We are subject to regulations that have been adopted with respect to environmental matters, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, regulations adopted by the European Union. In February 2007, we announced the creation of our Carbon Neutral Storage program, which we have continued to maintain. Through this program, we augment the inherent energy efficiency of our utility storage platform by purchasing carbon offsets for each terabyte of storage capacity sold with our Thin Provisioning software. We purchase our carbon credits through TerraPass, Inc., one of the leading retailers of greenhouse gas reduction programs in the United States. TerraPass funds projects designed to reduce total global carbon dioxide emissions and defines a carbon offset as a certificate representing the reduction of one metric ton (2.205lbs) of carbon dioxide emissions. In 2010, we amended this program to apply only to new system purchases. Customers enrolled in this program since 2007 have accounted for a combined annualized energy savings equivalent to approximately 69.9 million kilowatt-hours and $8.4 million dollars. We believe that our Carbon Neutral Storage program effectively delivers carbon-neutral storage by funding the purchase of carbon credits equivalent to one metric ton of carbon dioxide gas, or CO2, for each terabyte of 3PAR Utility Storage sold with Thin Provisioning. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as customary contractual protections. We have been issued 32 United States patents, which expire between 2021 and 2027, and we have 12 United States utility patent applications pending. We also have counterparts granted and pending in other jurisdictions around the world. Our registered trademarks in the United States are the “3” design logo, “3PAR,” “InServ,” “InForm,” “InSpire” and “Serving Information.” In Europe, the “3” design logo, “3PAR,” “InServ,” “InSpire,” are registered Community Trade Marks. In Japan, the “3” design logo, “3PAR,” “InServ” and “InSpire” are registered trademarks. If not renewed, our trademarks expire between 2012 and 2016. In addition to the protections described above, we generally control access to and use of our proprietary software and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, customers and resellers, and our software is protected by United States and international copyright laws. We may not receive competitive advantages from the rights granted under our patents and other intellectual property rights. Our competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary 13 Table of Contents technologies, duplicate our proprietary technologies or design around the patents we own or license. In addition, in the future, we may be subject to lawsuits by third parties seeking to enforce their own intellectual property rights, as described in “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—Claims by other parties that we infringe their proprietary rights could harm our business.” We license our software pursuant to agreements that impose restrictions on customers’ ability to use the software, such as prohibiting reverse engineering and limiting the use of copies. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute nondisclosure and assignment of intellectual property agreements and by restricting access to our source code. Other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to enforce our rights adequately against these parties. Backlog We do not believe that our backlog at any particular time is meaningful because it is not necessarily indicative of future revenue in any given period. In particular, a substantial number of our purchase orders do not include a firm shipment date, and shipments to customers may be delayed for substantial periods based on the customer’s specific needs. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenue comes from orders that are booked, shipped and installed in the same quarter. Employees As of March 31, 2010, we had 657 full-time employees consisting of 208 employees in research and development, 238 employees in sales and marketing, 75 employees in general and administration and 136 employees in customer services and manufacturing operations. A total of 87 of these employees were located outside of the United States. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our employee relations to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows the name, age and position as of May 1, 2010 of each of our executive officers: Name Age Position David C. Scott 48 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Adriel G. Lares 37 Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey A. Price 49 Chief Technical Officer, System Design, Co-Founder and Director Ashok Singhal 50 Chief Technical Officer, System Architecture and Co-Founder Peter Slocum 54 Vice President of Engineering Randall J. Weigel 50 Vice President of Worldwide Sales Rusty Walther 51 Vice President of Customer Services Craig S. Nunes 48 Vice President of Marketing Stephen F. Crimi 49 Vice President of Business Development and Alliances Randall T. Gast 48 Vice President of Corporate Operations Alastair A. Short 53 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Jeannette Robinson 59 Vice President of Human Resources David C. Scott has served as our president and chief executive officer since January 2001. From October 1991 to January 2001, Mr. Scott held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, a computing technology solutions and services company, most recently as the general manager of the XP enterprise storage business in its Network Storage Solutions organization. Mr. Scott holds a B.S. degree in Computer Science and Mathematics from Bristol University in the United Kingdom. 14 Table of Contents Adriel G. Lares has served as our chief financial officer since January 2005. From March 2004 to January 2005, Mr. Lares served as our treasurer, and from March 2001 to March 2004, he served as our director of finance. From January 1999 to March 2001, Mr. Lares served as the chief financial officer of Techfuel Inc., a reseller of computer storage products. From February 1996 to December 1998, Mr. Lares was an investment banking analyst in the technology practice at Morgan Stanley, a financial services firm. From June 1994 to January 1996, Mr. Lares served as a treasury analyst at The Walt Disney Company, a diversified worldwide entertainment company. Mr. Lares holds a B.A. degree in Economics from Stanford University. Jeffrey A. Price is one of our co-founders and has served as our chief technology officer, system design since April 2009 and as a member of our board of directors since May 2001. From May 1999 to April 2009, Mr. Price served as our vice president of engineering. From February 1989 to April 1999, Mr. Price was a member of the architecture team at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a networking computing infrastructure solutions company, most recently as the director of systems engineering. Ashok Singhal is one of our co-founders and served as our chief technical officer from May 1999 until March 2009. In April 2009, Mr. Singhal’s title was changed to chief technical officer, system architecture. From September 1990 to April 1999, Mr. Singhal was a member of the architecture team at Sun Microsystems, Inc. where he served as the chief architect for mid-range servers from 1993 until April 1999. Mr. Singhal holds a BTech degree in Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Peter Slocum has served as our vice president of engineering since May 2009. From January 2006 to August 2007, Mr. Slocum was the vice president of engineering at ViVotech, a privately-held provider of contactless payment software, transaction management systems and readers. From December 2002 to December 2005, Mr. Slocum was the vice president of systems quality assurance and engineering operations at Brocade Communications Systems, a data center networking solutions and services company. Prior to these roles, Mr. Slocum served as vice president of engineering at both Cylink Corporation, a provider of hardware and software security products for mission-critical private networks and business communications over the Internet, and Octel Communications, a provider of voice messaging systems and services. Mr. Slocum holds an M.S. in Computer Science from Georgia Tech and an MBA from the University of California at Berkeley. Randall J. Weigel has served as our vice president of worldwide sales since May 2009 and served as our regional vice president of North American commercial sales from July 2007 to April 2009. From January 2002 to July 2007, Mr. Weigel served as central area vice president of sales at NetApp, a provider of storage and data management solutions. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Weigel served in various leadership positions for Cisco Systems, a networking company, including operations director for the Southwest. Mr. Weigel holds a B.A degree in Communications from the University of Iowa. Rusty Walther has served as our vice president of customer services since September 2009. From May 2009 to September 2009, Mr. Walther served as vice president of customer service and support at Data Domain, an EMC company providing deduplication storage systems. From January 2005 to April 2009, Mr. Walther served as senior vice president of global support at NetApp, a provider of storage and data management solutions. Prior to 2005, Mr. Walther held various senior customer service management positions at ONI Systems, an optical networking manufacturer, AboveNet Communications, a provider of high bandwidth communication solutions, Nortel Networks, a recognized leader in delivering communications capabilities and 3Com, a networking solutions provider. Prior to entering private industry, Mr. Walther spent 16 years in the US Marine Corps and departed government service in 1992 as director of US Marine Corps West Coast data center operations. Craig S. Nunes has served as our vice president of marketing since January 2005. From July 2000 to December 2004, Mr. Nunes served as our senior director of marketing. From June 1989 to July 2000, Mr. Nunes served in various positions with Hewlett-Packard Company, most recently as its director of enterprise storage 15 Table of Contents marketing. Mr. Nunes holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Petroleum Engineering from Stanford University and an M.B.A. from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Stephen F. Crimi has served as our vice president of business development and alliances since July 2006. From February 2005 to July 2006, Mr. Crimi served as our senior director of business development and alliances, and from October 2002 to February 2005, as our director of business development and alliances. From January 2002 to October 2002, Mr. Crimi was a principal in a management consulting company he founded. From February 2000 to December 2001, Mr. Crimi was vice president of business development and alliances at Acta Technology, Inc., a data integration vendor. Mr. Crimi holds a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from Union College, an M.B.A. from the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley and an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering, also from the University of California at Berkeley. Randall T. Gast has served as our vice president of corporate operations since May 2006. From August 2004 to April 2006, Mr. Gast served as vice president of global operations at Adaptec, Inc., an enterprise storage vendor. From October 2002 to July 2004, Mr. Gast was vice president of worldwide operations and customer support for Snap Appliance, Inc., a division of Adaptec, Inc. From September 1999 to September 2002, he served as acting vice president of worldwide operations and materials for Maxtor Corporation, a storage solution company. Mr. Gast holds a B.S. degree with a dual major in Manufacturing and Mechanical Engineering from Arizona State University. Alastair A. Short has served as our vice president and general counsel since July 2002. From October 2001 to June 2002, Mr. Short served as vice president and general counsel of MetaTV, Inc., an interactive media software company. From April 2000 to September 2001, Mr. Short served as chief legal officer and assistant secretary for Netigy Corporation, a network infrastructure and services company. From July 1989 to March 2000, Mr. Short held various senior management positions at Hitachi Data Systems Corporation, a storage systems vendor, including executive vice president and general counsel. Mr. Short holds a Bachelor of Law Degree from the University of Warwick, England. Jeannette Robinson has served as our vice president of human resources since March 2001. From January 1996 to February 2001, Ms. Robinson was vice president of human resources for Corsair Communications, a provider of business solutions for the wireless industry. From June 1990 to January 1996, Ms. Robinson held various human resources management positions at Cisco Systems, Inc., an Internet networking equipment and network management company. Ms. Robinson holds a B.A. degree in Sociology/Criminology and a B.S. degree in Business Administration/Marketing from San Jose State University. Corporate Information We began operations in May 1999 and started commercial shipments of our products in March 2002. We were reincorporated in Delaware in May 2007. Our principal executive offices are located at 4209 Technology Drive, Fremont, California 94538, and our telephone number is (510) 413-5999. Our website address is www.3PAR.com. Website Posting of SEC Filings Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on our website and can be accessed by clicking on the “Investors” tab. Further, a copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The general economic downturn and reduced information technology spending could have a continued adverse impact on our revenues, revenue growth rates, and operating results. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, and in particular for storage infrastructure, and on the capital spending budgets and financial health of our current and prospective customers. The purchase of our products is often discretionary and may require our customers to make significant initial commitments of capital. The general economic downturn has dramatically reduced business spending on technology infrastructure. In response to the global recession, deterioration in their own financial condition, or an inability to obtain financing for capital investments, our customers and customer prospects could reduce or defer their spending on storage infrastructure, which could result in lost opportunities, declines in bookings and revenues, order cancellations or indefinite shipping delays. During the year ended March 31, 2010, we experienced a generally weaker demand environment as capital spending by our customers remained under pressure. Continued or increased weakness in general economic conditions, a reduction in storage infrastructure spending even if general economic conditions improve, or deterioration in the financial condition of our customers and customer prospects will adversely impact our business, revenues, rates of revenue growth (if any), operating results and financial condition, including as a result of potential inventory writedowns, longer sales cycles, potential increases in price competition, reduced unit sales, increased number of days of sales outstanding and customer payment defaults. Changes in financial accounting standards or business practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported operating results. As of April 1, 2010, we provide the option to our U.S. customers to have third party service partners to provide installation of our storage systems for them. At the same time, we adopted amended guidance for revenue recognition issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which changes the requirements for establishing separate units of accounting in a multiple element arrangement. Therefore, for all U.S. orders received on or after April 1, 2010, we will primarily recognize revenue upon shipment as opposed to installation under our previous business practice and accounting policy. Under our previous accounting policy, product shipments to direct U.S. customers that had not been installed by us at the period end were recorded as deferred revenue. Consequently, in any given quarter, a substantial portion of our revenue was derived from prior quarters’ shipments that had been deferred due to unperformed installation. For orders received prior to April 1, 2010 under our old business practice, we continue to recognize revenue upon installation. As a result, our revenue may fluctuate unexpectedly during the transition period and our future revenue may significantly differ from our historical result for similar periods. Additionally, since our deferred product revenue is likely to decrease significantly in the future, we may have reduced visibility into our future quarters and forecasting our revenue may be more difficult. A change in accounting standards or business practices can have a significant impact on our operating results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing accounting rules or our business or accounting practices, such as our change to a software support model in March 2007 or the change in our revenue recognition policy in April 2010, may adversely affect our reported results, cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and make comparability between periods less meaningful. 17 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. If our operating results fall below expectations, the price of our common stock could decline. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Numerous factors may limit our visibility with respect to future business activity, revenues, and operating results, and any forecasts that we may provide, or that securities analysts may publish, of future financial performance will be subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. For example, the general economic downturn has had an adverse effect on our visibility as customers have reevaluated capital spending budgets in light of the adverse economic conditions and their own financial circumstances. The timing of orders and our ability to recognize revenue under generally accepted accounting principles can also influence our visibility with respect to operating results. We typically receive a substantial portion of our orders in the last two weeks of each fiscal quarter, and, many of the orders we receive may include conditions or may not ship or be installed during the quarter in which they are received, in which case we may not be able to recognize revenue for those orders. For example, in the quarter ended June 30, 2009, our revenues were less than the expectations of securities analysts due in part to customer installation delays related to a number of large equipment purchases. These delays precluded us from recognizing revenues with respect to these transactions in the quarter ended June 30, 2009. Finally, some of our orders are conditional upon customer acceptance criteria or successful testing of our products, and orders placed with our resellers by governmental entities may generally be terminated unilaterally or may be subject to additional conditions. As a result, predicting when orders will translate to revenue, and consequently predicting our future operating results, is extremely difficult. In addition, our quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenue may be significantly different from our historical or projected rates, and our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. In any quarter, a substantial portion of our revenue may be largely attributable to orders from a limited number of customers, which can result in our recognizing a substantial amount of revenue without a corresponding increase in operating expenses. Although in fiscal year 2010, 2009 and 2008, no customer represented 10% or more of our total revenue, in the first and third quarter of fiscal 2010, first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 and the first quarter of fiscal 2008, 10%, 12%, 20%, 12% and 25% of our revenue, respectively, was attributable to sales to single customers. For these reasons, comparing our operating results, particularly our gross profit results, on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. In addition to other risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may affect or result in period-to-period variability in our operating results include: • reductions in customers’ budgets for storage infrastructure purchases and indefinite delays in their budgeting and purchasing cycles, especially given the general economic downturn, could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results because the purchase of our products requires our customers to make strategic and capital investment decisions about their storage infrastructures; • aggressive pricing tactics by our competitors could adversely affect our operating results because we may offer our products at a discount to win new business and maintain existing customers, which could decrease our gross margins; • the length of time between our receipt of orders and the recognition of revenue from those orders, which can be several quarters because orders may not ship or install until several months later or contain terms that do not permit us to recognize revenue until certain conditions have been satisfied; • reductions in the size of individual transactions involving initial system sales, because smaller systems tend to have a smaller software component and, therefore, could decrease our gross margins; • any delays in installation or our ability to satisfy other revenue recognition criteria that affect even a small number of large transactions, as occurred in our quarter ended June 30, 2009, could have an adverse impact on our revenues, revenue growth (if any), and operating results. 18 Table of Contents • our ability to develop, introduce and ship, in a timely manner, new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements; and • the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue if customers delay orders pending the new release or upgrade. We have a history of annual losses. Since our formation, we have recorded a net loss in all of our annual fiscal periods. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, our net losses were $3.2 million, $959,000 and $10.1 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2010 and 2009, our accumulated deficit was $178.1 million and $174.9 million, respectively. During fiscal 2011, we expect to incur an increase in our expenditures in connection with our recent international expansion and the discontinuance of certain cost control measures that we instituted during fiscal 2010. Additionally, we will continue to invest in our research and development, sales and customer services organizations. As a result of these increased expenditures, we will be required to increase our revenue in order to achieve profitability. If we fail to increase revenues and manage our cost structure, we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. As a result, our business could be harmed, and our stock price could decline. We intend to continue focusing on revenue growth and increasing market penetration and international presence at the expense of profitability by re-investing heavily in our operations. Our chosen strategy is to increase our investments in our marketing, services and sales operations and to continue investing significantly in research and development at the expense of profitability. We believe our decision to continue investing heavily in these operations will be critical to our revenue growth. Accordingly, we anticipate that our operating costs and expenses will increase substantially for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot be assured that this strategy will result in any revenue growth. Even if we achieve significant revenue growth, we may continue to experience net losses and operating losses, similar to those we have incurred historically. Additionally, as long as we pursue this strategy, we may not achieve profitability again or, if achieved, we may not be able to sustain profitability. We face significant competition from a number of established companies, which have offered and may continue to offer substantial pricing discounts and pursue other aggressive competitive tactics in order to attract and maintain customers. We face intense competition from a number of established companies that seek to provide storage solutions similar to our utility storage solution. Currently, these competitors include EMC, Hitachi, IBM, NetApp, HP, Oracle, and Dell. All of these competitors, as well as other potential competitors, have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, more employees, better name recognition, a larger base of customers and more established customer relations than we have. Consequently, some of these companies have substantial control and influence regarding the acceptance of a particular industry standard or competing technology. In addition, these competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and may be able to deliver competitive products or technologies at a significantly lower initial cost than our products. For example, some of our competitors have offered bundled products and services in order to reduce the initial cost of their storage solution to a customer. Our competitors also may choose to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we may choose to adopt. For example, some of our competitors have offered their products either at significant discounts or even for free in response to our efforts to market the technological merits and overall cost benefits of our products. Some of our competitors may also have the ability to manufacture competitive products at lower costs. Our current or potential competitors may also offer bundled arrangements that include IT solutions, such as document management or security that we do not currently offer and that are unrelated to storage, but that may be desirable 19 Table of Contents and beneficial features for our current and prospective customers. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that continually evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing storage products internally. Competition may also arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors or third parties, some of which already exist, to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We also have many competitors that have developed competing technologies. For example, some of our competitors have developed a storage technology that directly competes with our utility storage solution, including our 3PAR Thin Provisioning software application. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new services and technologies that may offer greater performance and improved pricing compared to our products, any of which could harm our business. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that may render our services or technologies obsolete or uncompetitive. These and other competitive pressures may prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors. Many of our established competitors have long-standing relationships with key decision makers at many of our current and prospective customers. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively and maintain or increase our market share. Many of our competitors benefit from established brand awareness and long-standing relationships with key decision makers at many of our current and prospective customers. We expect that our competitors will seek to leverage these existing relationships to discourage customers from purchasing our products. In particular, when competing against us, we expect our competitors to emphasize the importance of data storage retention, the high cost of data storage failure and the perceived risks of relying on products from a company with a shorter operating history and less predictable operating results. Additionally, most of our prospective customers have existing storage systems manufactured by our competitors. This gives an incumbent competitor an advantage in retaining the customer because the incumbent competitor already understands the customer’s network infrastructure, user demands and information technology needs. These factors may cause our current or prospective customers to be unwilling to purchase our products and instead to purchase the products of our better-known and more established competitors. In the event that we are unable to successfully sell our products to new customers, persuade customers of our competitors to purchase our products instead, or prevent our competitors from persuading our customers to purchase our competitors’ products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our market share. This would have a negative impact on our future operating results. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend substantially on our ability to attract and retain sales, management and other key personnel, and any failure to attract and retain these employees could harm our future revenues, business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend substantially on our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel. In particular, we anticipate continuing to hire direct sales personnel and our operating plan assumes that we will be able to attract and retain our sales and other key employees. These positions require candidates with specific backgrounds in the storage industry, and competition for employees with this expertise can be intense. In addition, we believe that there are only a limited number of individuals with the specific skills required for many of our sales and other key positions. We have experienced substantial competition in our hiring efforts and also in our retention efforts as our personnel have been frequently recruited by other companies, including our competitors. As a result, we may be unable to identify, hire, or retain qualified individuals. To the extent that we are successful in hiring new employees to fill these positions, we need a significant amount of time to train the new employees before they can become effective and efficient in performing their jobs. As a result of the difficulty in finding and training qualified candidates, it is critical for us to retain the 20 Table of Contents individuals who currently fill these positions. In particular, because competition for highly skilled sales and engineering employees can be intense in our industry, recruitment practices can be aggressive. Substantial groups of our employees in key functional areas such as sales and systems engineers have been targets of aggressive recruiting efforts, which could reoccur and result in a loss of key employees. Many of the employers with whom we compete for talent, or who may target our employee base, are larger with substantially greater resources than we have and may be able to offer compensation packages or other benefits that we do not provide or that are substantially more lucrative than our operating budgets permit. Any loss of our existing or future sales or other key personnel could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain key management personnel or to quickly fill any management vacancies that may arise. Our management personnel and other key employees can terminate their employment at any time, and our business could suffer if we are unable to replace any departing management personnel or other key employees. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all other areas of our organization, including our customer services and finance department. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary technical, sales and other personnel on a cost-effective basis, we may be unable to grow our business and increase our revenue. Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Our sales efforts involve substantial education of our current and prospective customers about the use and benefits of our products, including their technical merits and capabilities and potential cost savings to the organization as compared to the incumbent storage solutions or other storage solutions that our customers or prospective customers may be considering. This education process can be extremely time consuming and typically involves a significant product evaluation process. Historically, our sales cycle averages three to four months, but has, in some cases, exceeded 12 months. Despite the substantial time and money that we invest in our sales efforts, we cannot assure you that these efforts will produce any sales. In addition, product purchases by our current and prospective customers are frequently subject to their budget constraints, lengthy approval processes, and a variety of unpredictable administrative, processing and other delays, which have become increasingly prevalent during the current economic downturn. A substantial number of our purchase orders do not include a shipment date, and shipments to customers may be delayed for substantial periods based on the customer’s specific needs. Our sales cycle may prevent us from recognizing revenue in a particular quarter, is relatively long and costly and may not produce any sales, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate and harm our business. We purchase our disk drives, power supplies and certain components for our controller nodes from a limited number of qualified suppliers. If these or any of our other suppliers are not able to meet our requirements, as a result of parts shortages, deterioration in their financial condition in light of the global recession, or otherwise, it could harm our business. We purchase sophisticated components from a limited number of qualified suppliers. We purchase our disk drives from Hitachi, Xyratex or Seagate, our power supplies from Power-One, and ASICs for our controller nodes from Renesas. Initially, suppliers of our disk drives, power supplies and ASICs require up to several months to qualify through a lengthy testing process and a substantial amount of work to enable interoperability with our products. In the event that it became necessary for us to find another supplier of these or any of the other components of our products, for any reason, including financial difficulties of suppliers arising from the global recession, the time required to transition to the new supplier could take up to 12 months, due to the lengthy qualification and technology development process. 21 Table of Contents We have in the past and may in the future experience quality control issues and delivery delays with our suppliers due to factors such as high industry demand or the inability of some vendors to consistently meet our quality or delivery requirements. We do not have a long-term contract with any of our current suppliers, and we purchase all components from our suppliers on a purchase order basis. In addition, the current global economic downturn could adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide essential services to us on a timely basis, if at all. If any of our suppliers were to cancel or materially change their commitments with us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for our products, we could lose time-sensitive customer orders, be unable to develop or sell certain products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we periodically transition our product line to incorporate new technologies developed by us or our suppliers. For example, from time to time our suppliers may discontinue production of existing components and products due to new technologies that are replacing such components and products. Often times we are not given substantial advanced notice of such discontinuances and our suppliers may require a significant amount of time to qualify the new technologies to ensure that they are compatible with our products. If such new technologies are not qualified in a timely manner, we could experience inventory shortages, which could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders which could harm our business. We rely principally on two contract manufacturers to assemble portions of our products, and our failure to accurately forecast demand for our products or successfully manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. We rely principally on two contract manufacturers to assemble the disk chassis and controller nodes for each of our InServ Storage Server products, manage our supply chain and, alone or together with us, negotiate component costs. Specifically, we rely on AsteelFlash, to assemble our controller nodes and on AsteelFlash and Xyratex to assemble our disk chassis. Our reliance on our contract manufacturers for these disk chassis and controller nodes reduces our control over the assembly process, quality assurance, production costs and product supply. If we fail to manage our relationship with our contract manufacturers or if either of our contract manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to negotiate with suppliers for reduced component costs, our operating results could be harmed. The general economic downturn may adversely impact the financial condition and manufacturing capacity of our contract manufacturers, which could impair their ability to perform under our agreements. In addition, our contract manufacturers may terminate our agreements with them upon prior notice to us or for reasons such as if we become insolvent, or if we fail to perform a material obligation under our agreements with them. If we are required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal manufacturing operations for any reason, (including financial problems of our contract manufacturers, reduction of manufacturing output made available to us, or the termination of one of our contracts), we may lose revenue, incur increased costs and damage our customer relationships. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production are expensive and time-consuming. We are required to provide forecasts to our contract manufacturers regarding product demand and production levels. We maintain with our contract manufacturers a rolling 90-day firm order for products they manufacture for us, and these orders may only be rescheduled or cancelled under certain limited conditions. If we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties, which could adversely impact our operating results. We intend to introduce new products and product enhancements, which could require us to achieve volume production rapidly by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and component suppliers. We may need to increase our component purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions if we experience increased demand. If our contract manufacturers are unable to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products, or if we or either of our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain adequate quantities of 22 Table of Contents components, it could cause a delay in our order fulfillment, in which case our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our customer support and services, and any failure to offer high-quality support and services would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Once our products are deployed, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. Our products provide mission-critical services to our customers and a high level of customer support is necessary to maintain our customer relationships. We rely on authorized service providers in certain locations in the United States to install our products and deliver initial levels of on-site customer support and services. While we carefully identify, train, and certify our authorized service providers, it may be more difficult for us to ensure the proper delivery and installation of our products or the quality or responsiveness of the support and services being provided. As we grow our business, our ability to provide effective customer support and services will continue to be largely dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified direct customer service personnel and our ability to maintain and grow our network of authorized service providers. As we look to improve our ability to deliver customer services effectively and efficiently, we recently formed a subsidiary in India, based in Bangalore, where we employ direct customer service personnel to deliver customer support and services. Additionally, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English, as well as identifying, training, and certifying international authorized service providers to support products we may deploy in geographical areas in which we may not currently have authorized service providers. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on strong word-of-mouth recommendations from our customers. We believe that communication among our customers is both rapid and frequent. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer support and services, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality customer support and services, could harm our reputation, adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing and prospective customers, and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on channel partners and resellers to sell our products in markets where we do not have a direct sales force, and on channel partners and authorized service providers to service and support our products in markets where we do not have direct customer service personnel. Any disruptions to, or failure to develop and manage, our relationships with channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers could have an adverse effect on our customer relationships and on our ability to increase revenue. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to establish and maintain successful relationships with a variety of channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers in markets where we do not have a direct sales force or direct customer service personnel. We currently have a direct sales force in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Korea, Australia, China, Singapore and Japan, although we rely heavily on our channel partners in Japan. In other markets, we rely and expect to continue to rely on establishing relationships with channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers. Our ability to maintain or grow our international revenue will depend, in part, on our ability to manage and expand our network of channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers internationally. Whereas, channel partners and resellers engage in the sale of products, in addition to their sales activities, our channel partners also provide installation, post-sale service and support on our behalf in their local markets. We also have agreements with authorized service providers that, although they do not sell our products, deliver and install our products, as well as provide post-sale customer service and support, on our behalf in their local markets. In markets where we rely on channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers, we have less contact with our customers and less control over the sales process and the quality and responsiveness of our channel partners, resellers and authorized service 23 Table of Contents partners. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to ensure the proper delivery and installation of our products or the quality or responsiveness of the support and services being offered. Any failure on our part to effectively identify and train our channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers and to monitor their sales activity as well as the customer support and services being provided to our customers in their local markets could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Identifying, training, and retaining qualified channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers requires significant time and resources. In order to maintain and expand our network of channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers, we must continue to scale and improve the systems, processes, and procedures that support our resellers and authorized service providers, which will require continuing investment in our information technology infrastructure and dedication of significant training resources. As we grow our business and support organization, these systems, processes, and procedures may become increasingly complex, difficult and expensive to manage, particularly as the geographic scope of our customer base expands globally. We typically enter into non-exclusive, written agreements with our channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers. These agreements generally have a one-year, self-renewing term, have no minimum sales commitment, and do not prohibit our channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers from offering products and services that compete with ours. Accordingly, our channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers may choose to discontinue offering our products and services or may not devote sufficient attention and resources toward selling our products and services. Additionally, our competitors may provide incentives to our existing and potential channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers to use, purchase or offer their products and services or to prevent or reduce sales of our products and services. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business would be harmed. In recent years, we have experienced substantial growth in the size and scope of our business, and if that growth continues, it will place significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. In fiscal 2010, our number of employees increased from 591 to 657 and in fiscal 2009 from 451 to 591. We have also expanded the geographic scope of our business, including the establishment of research and development operations in Northern Ireland in fiscal 2008, a sales office in Singapore in fiscal 2009, new sales operations in Australia, China, France and Korea and a sales and customer services center in India in fiscal 2010. We expect to continue to expand internationally through direct sales efforts and by establishing indirect sales and support relationships with channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers in select international markets. Continued growth in the size and scope of our business operations will require substantial management attention. For example, our management will have to increasingly dedicate its time and attention to oversee our efforts to recruit, integrate and retain highly-skilled personnel to join our growing internal departments; to manage a growing and dispersed geography to support the expansion of our research and development, sales and customer support organizations; and to expand and improve our information technology infrastructure and network of facilities to support a growing employee and customer base. In addition, our management will have to enhance and improve company-wide processes and procedures to address human resource, financial reporting and financial management matters that are consistent across our organization and comply with applicable U.S. and international regulatory and legal requirements. If we are not successful in effectively managing our growth, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our international sales and operations introduce risks that can harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 we derived 20%, 16% and 17% of our revenue from end customers outside the United States, respectively. We expect that our international sales will continue to contribute a similar percentage of our total revenue on an annual basis. We have direct sales personnel in the United States, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, and Singapore and the United Kingdom and agreements with 24 Table of Contents third-party resellers or channel partners in Belgium, France, China, Czech Republic, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Luxembourg, Malaysia, The Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Spain, the United Kingdom, Singapore, South Africa and Taiwan. In addition, we have international subsidiaries in Australia, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore and the United Kingdom. We expect to continue to hire additional sales personnel and expand our network of channel partners and resellers internationally and as a result may need to establish additional international subsidiaries and offices. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: • our inability to employ qualified management and other personnel; • the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • difficulties in enforcing contracts, collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; • the need to localize our products and licensing programs for international customers; • tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; and • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. In addition, although the functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the U.S. Dollar, in countries outside the U.S. we transact business in various currencies besides the U.S. Dollar and we have certain cash accounts, receivables and payables balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. We are currently hedging certain Euro and British Pound denominated receivables held by us to reduce the risk that our earnings would be adversely affected by changes in Euro and the British Pound exchange rates. Our hedging activities reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates could negatively impact our results from operations. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, which in turn could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in foreign markets. Because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, our products are subject to United States export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to introduce products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or an inability to export or sell our products to, existing or prospective customers with international operations and harm our business. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to laws and regulations governing the environment and may incur substantial environmental regulation costs, which could harm our operating results. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. These laws and regulations have been enacted in several jurisdictions in which we sell our products, including various European Union, or EU, member countries. For example, the EU has enacted RoHS and WEEE directives. RoHS prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard drives, sold after July 1, 2006. The WEEE directive obligates parties that sell electrical and electronic equipment in the EU to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment and provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the equipment. There is still some uncertainty in certain EU countries as to which party involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic equipment will be ultimately responsible for registration, reporting and disposal. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we sell our products. We will need to ensure that we comply with these laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also comply with these laws and regulations. If we or our component suppliers fail to comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse or be unable to purchase our products, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In connection with our compliance with these environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. As we seek to increase our sales to the public sector, we may face difficulties and risks unique to government contracts that may have a detrimental impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Historically, we have sold products to United States government agencies through third-party resellers. We established a wholly owned subsidiary through which we have sold and intend to continue to sell directly to more entities and agencies within the United States government and state and local governments. Developing new business in the public sector often requires the development of relationships with different agencies or entities, as well as with other government contractors. If we are unable to develop or sustain such relationships, we may be unable to procure new contracts within the timeframes we expect, and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Contracting with the United States government often requires businesses to participate in a highly competitive bidding process to obtain new contracts. We may be unable to bid competitively if our products or services are improperly priced, or if we are incapable of providing our products and services at a competitive price. The bidding process is an expensive and time-consuming endeavor that may result in a financial loss for us if we fail to win a contract on which we submitted a bid. Further, some agencies within the United States government may also require some or all of our personnel to obtain a security clearance or may require us to add features or functionality to our products that could require a significant amount of time and prevent our employees from working on other critical projects. If our key personnel are unable to obtain or retain this clearance or if we cannot or do not provide required features or functionality, we may be unsuccessful in our bid for some government contracts. Contracts with governmental entities also frequently include provisions not found in private sector contracts and are often governed by laws and regulations that do not affect private sector contracts. These unique provisions may permit public sector customers to take actions not available to customers in the private sector. These actions may include termination of contracts for convenience or due to a default. The United States government can also suspend operations if Congress does not allocate sufficient funds to a particular agency or 26 Table of Contents organization, and the United States government may allow our competitors to protest our successful bids. The occurrence of any of these events may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In order to maintain contracts we may obtain with government entities, we must also comply with many rules and regulations that may affect our relationships with other customers. For example, the United States government could terminate its contracts with us if we come under foreign government control or influence, may require that we disclose our pricing data during the course of negotiations, and may require us to prevent access to classified data. If the United States government requires us to meet any of these demands, it could increase our costs or prevent us from taking advantage of certain opportunities that may present themselves in the future. United States government agencies routinely investigate and audit government contractors’ administrative processes. They may audit our performance and our pricing, and review our compliance with rules and regulations. If they find that we have improperly allocated costs, they may require us to refund those costs or may refuse to pay us for outstanding balances related to the improper allocation. An unfavorable audit could reduce our revenue, and may result in civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, particularly outside of the United States. Further, with respect to patent rights, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims, and even if patents are issued, they may be contested, circumvented or invalidated over the course of our business. Moreover, the rights granted under any of our issued patents or patents that may be issued in the future may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own now or in the future. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary rights could harm our business. Third parties could claim that our products or technology infringe their proprietary rights. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future be contacted by third parties suggesting that we seek a license to certain of their intellectual property rights that they may believe we are infringing. We expect that infringement claims against us may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility, we believe that we will face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment against us could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort 27 Table of Contents and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers, resellers and authorized service providers. Because we generally indemnify our customers, resellers and authorized service providers if our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, any such claims would require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers, resellers and authorized service providers. We may not generate positive returns on our research and development investments. Developing our products is expensive. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 our research and development expenses were $47.6 million, or 24% of our total revenue, $46.3 million, or 25% of our total revenue, and $34.1 million, or 29% of our total revenue, respectively. Our future plans include significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, our ability to generate positive returns on these investments may take several years, if we are able to do so at all. If we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We compete in a market characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a timely manner, or at all. For example, our failure to develop additional features that our competitors are able to provide could adversely affect our business. In addition, although we invest a considerable amount of money into our research and development efforts, any new products or product enhancements that we develop may not achieve widespread market acceptance. As competition increases in the storage industry and the information technology industry in general, it may become even more difficult for us to stay abreast of technological changes or develop new technologies or introduce new products as quickly as our competitors, many of which have substantially greater financial and engineering resources than we do. Additionally, risks associated with the introduction of new products or product enhancements include difficulty in predicting customer needs or preferences, transitioning existing products to incorporate new technologies, the capability of our suppliers to deliver high-quality components required by such new products or product enhancements in a timely fashion, and unknown defects in such new products or product enhancements. If we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological or market changes or effectively manage the transitions to new products or new technologies, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected software or hardware errors or failures, which could cause harm to our financial condition and our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our products are highly technical and complex and are critical to the operation of storage networks. We test our products prior to commercial release and during such testing have discovered and may in the future discover errors and defects that need to be resolved prior to release. Resolving these errors and defects can take a significant amount of time and prevent our technical personnel from working on other important tasks. In addition, our products have contained and may in the future contain one or more errors, defects or security vulnerabilities that were not detected prior to commercial release to our customers. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release, as well as any computer virus or human error on the part of our customer support personnel or authorized service providers that result in a customer’s data unavailability, loss or corruption, could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, 28 Table of Contents including in relation to changes to our products made by our resellers or authorized service providers. Our contracts with our customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. If flaws in the design, production, assembly or testing of our products or our suppliers’ components were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that would result in substantial repair, replacement or service costs and potential damage to our reputation. Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities, control of material and manufacturing quality and costs and product testing are critical factors in our future growth. We cannot assure you that our efforts to monitor, develop, modify and implement appropriate test and manufacturing processes for our products will be sufficient to permit us to avoid a rate of failure in our products that results in substantial delays in shipment, significant repair or replacement costs or potential damage to our reputation, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may seek to engage in the acquisition of other companies or assets, all or many of which could be viewed negatively, lead to integration problems, disrupt our business, increase our expenses, reduce our cash, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our financial condition and operating results. In the future, we may seek to acquire companies or assets that we believe may enhance our market position. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we cannot assure you that they will not be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities and increase our expenses. Any acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are incurring significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices, and may continue to impose new or modified requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform annual system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may not reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial expenses and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. 29 Table of Contents If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are identified and deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, NYSE or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. If we need additional capital in the future, it may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We may require, or elect to access, additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to fund our operations, or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing or future holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems or services provided by our suppliers and manufacturers could impair our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenue. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power losses, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. In addition, our corporate headquarters, inventory storage facilities and product assembly centers, as well as the facilities of many of our suppliers and manufacturers, are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes. Some of our manufacturers also have facilities located in Asia, which could be adversely impacted by political or economic stability, inadequacy of local infrastructure to support our needs and difficulty in maintaining sufficient quality control over manufactured components and products. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at one or more of these locations could result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the deployment of our products, and lengthy interruptions in our service, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile, and our common stock has a limited trading history. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include: • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new or enhanced services, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • gain or loss of significant customers; • recruitment or departure of our key personnel; • the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale, including for sale by affiliates and other stockholders that own substantial amounts of our common stock; 30 Table of Contents • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business. The trading price of our common stock might also decline as a result of events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Reports published by securities or industry analysts, including projections in those reports that exceed our actual results, could adversely affect our stock price and trading volume. Securities research analysts establish and publish their own quarterly projections regarding us and our business. These projections may vary widely from one another and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if we fail to meet securities research analysts’ projections. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly our stock price or trading volume could decline. In addition, if securities or industry analysts cease coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock and the trading volume could decline. Insiders have substantial control over us and are able to influence corporate matters. At April 30, 2010, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 38% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, a former affiliate of one of our directors beneficially owns approximately 8% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: • authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 20,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president; 31 Table of Contents • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; • establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered terms; • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; • specify that no stockholder is permitted to cumulate votes at any election of directors; and • require a super-majority of votes to amend certain of the above-mentioned provisions. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. Section 203 generally prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder subject to certain exceptions ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 