Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. You should read the section titled “Forward-Looking Statements” beginning on page 1 for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business If we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. Our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. Our index and analytics products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our software products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. Throughout our businesses, we utilize certain data provided by third party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. As of December 31, 2012, there were over 200 such data suppliers. If the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Many of our data suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. For example, ISS relies on a data feed agreement with Broadridge Financial Solutions which allows for a large number of proxy ballots to be received, and proxy votes to be processed, electronically, minimizing the manual aspects of the proxy voting process and limiting the risk of error inherent in manual processes. If the data feed agreement with Broadridge was terminated, we would have to incur significant expenses in order to input our clients’ voting instructions directly into Broadridge’s proprietary electronic voting systems and our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. From time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. Termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider’s information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. If our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. Such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some data suppliers have sought and others may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. If we are unable to renegotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. 15 Table of Contents Our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. A portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenue streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients, including BlackRock, and in our largest market, the United States. Our clients, including our largest clients, may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. As the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. Additionally, as competition among our clients increases, they may have to lower the fees they charge to their clients, which could cause them to decrease our fees correspondingly or otherwise lead to a reduction of our fees in certain cases. See “—Our revenues and earnings attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets, or other factors that are tied to the calculation of our fees for certain index-linked investment products” below. Competition is intense and increasing rapidly among our clients that provide exchange traded funds, among other products. The fees ETF providers charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these exchange traded fund managers. For example, on October 15, 2012, BlackRock announced that its iShares ETF business launched a new series of funds based on certain MSCI investable market indices pursuant to a license with fee levels that are lower than those the Company currently receives with respect to existing iShares ETFs based on MSCI’s standard indices. Additionally, clients that have licensed our indices to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indices and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-MSCI index, in which case our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, on October 2, 2012, we announced that Vanguard had informed the Company of its decision to no longer use MSCI’s indices as the basis for certain of its index funds, including both ETF and other share classes, beginning in 2013, representing a loss of run rate of approximately $24.8 million at December 31, 2012. The ability of our licensees to cease using our indices is generally true not just with respect to an index’s use as the basis of an ETF but also with respect to its use as the basis of other financial products, including mutual funds and institutional funds. Finally, to the extent that an asset manager finds it beneficial to offer clients ETFs and institutional funds based on the same indices, a shift away from use of an index as the basis of one type of product may lead to a corresponding shift away from the same index as the basis of the other type of product. Our revenues and earnings attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets, or other factors that are tied to the calculation of our fees for certain index-linked investment products. A decrease in our fees for these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Clients that use our indices as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as ETFs and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the investment product’s assets. The value of an investment product’s assets can increase or decrease along with market performance and inflows and outflows, which could impact our revenues. In addition, in many cases our fees can be affected by an increase or decrease in a product provider’s total expense ratio (“TER”). In those cases, a reduction in the TER may negatively impact our revenues. Asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. They accounted for approximately 14.8%, and 15.6% of revenues for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These asset-based fees accounted for 43.3% and 44.7% of the revenues from our ten largest clients for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Volatile capital markets, such as those experienced recently, as well as changing investment styles, may influence an investor’s decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. For example, as of December 31, 2012, the month-end value of assets in ETFs linked to MSCI equity indices was $402.3 billion, which was 33.4% higher than the value of such assets as of December 31, 2011, and 10.6% higher than the value of such assets at September 30, 2012. A limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. Cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 25.0% and 25.8% of our total revenues, respectively. If we fail to obtain a significant number of new clients or if one of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, our largest client organization by revenue, BlackRock, accounted for 7.6% our total revenues. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 81.7% and 83.9%, respectively, of the revenue from BlackRock came from fees based on the assets in BlackRock’s exchange traded funds based on MSCI indices. See “—Our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees” above. Our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our clients may develop internally certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. For example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. To the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, in August 2011, BlackRock announced that it was seeking regulatory clearance to create indices for use as the basis of exchange traded funds that it would manage. See “—A limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. Cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations” above. Any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, such as the Internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. We rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect the confidentiality of client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, policies or procedures, or if an employee purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, policies or procedures, then unauthorized access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, client data could occur. Such unauthorized access, disclosure or misappropriation could damage our reputation and/or result in claims against us by our clients or regulators and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, on September 14, 2012, we received a Wells Notice from the staff of the SEC in connection with allegations that an ISS employee provided confidential information about how clients voted their proxies to proxy solicitors in return for cash and other gifts. If a failure of our internal controls, policies or procedures results in a security or privacy breach, we could also incur increased operating expenses to remediate the problems caused by the breach and prevent future breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to the composition of our indices. If our information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We change the composition of our indices from time to time. We believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our indices can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indices. Our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. We have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes to the composition of our indices. If our information barrier procedures fail and we inadvertently disclose, or an individual deliberately misuses, material non-public information about a change to one of our indices, our reputation may suffer. Clients’ loss of trust and confidence in our information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, certain exchanges permitted our clients to list exchange traded funds or other financial products based on our indices only if we provided a representation to the exchange that we had reasonable information barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our indices. If an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our indices, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. Third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We consider many aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. Despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. There is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. As we have experienced, even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, 17 Table of Contents time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful. Furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. • Trademarks and Service Marks—We have registered “MSCI”, “Barra” and “RiskMetrics” as trademarks or service marks in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries. We have also registered other marks for certain products and services in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries. When we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. Furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. • Patents—We currently hold 21 U.S. and foreign patents. We currently have four U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. Patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. There can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. • Copyrights—We believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. If a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Confidentiality and Trade Secrets—Our license agreements limit our clients’ right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. It is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. We also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure obligations with our employees. However, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure obligation and reveals a trade secret or other confidential information, we could lose the trade secret or confidentiality protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our confidential or proprietary information. We have investigated suspicions that former employees have used or disclosed our confidential or proprietary information, but we cannot be certain that we are aware or in the future will be aware of every instance in which this sort of behavior may occur. Additionally, the enforceability of our license agreements of non-disclosure obligations and the remedies available to us in the event of a breach vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. • License Agreements—Our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a license agreement signed by the client. We also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the Internet under on-line licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. There can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. • Third-Party Litigation—There has been recent third-party litigation in the U.S. regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether companies may issue and trade investment products based on a publicly-available index without the need for permission from (or payment to) the index owner. In July 2010, the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois found that the trading of index options on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (“DJIA”) and the S&P 500 index by the International Stock Exchange (“ISE”) without a license would misappropriate the index providers’ rights in their indexes. The ISE was permanently restrained and enjoined from listing or providing an exchange market for the trading of DJIA and/or S&P 500 index options and the Options Clearing Corporation was permanently restrained and enjoined from participating in the facilitation of an ISE index option based upon the DJIA and/or S&P 500 and from issuing, clearing or settling the exercise of such DJIA and/or S&P 500 index options. This decision was affirmed on appeal by the Illinois Appellate Court in May 2012. The Illinois Supreme Court refused to hear the ISE’s appeal of the Illinois Appellate Court’s decision. In another relevant case, in 2009, the German Federal Supreme Court concluded that the owner of a trademark who publishes an index generally available to all market participants 18 Table of Contents cannot prohibit, on the basis of German trademark law, a third party from referring to the index as a reference value in option warrants issued by the third party if the trademark is used for informational and factual purposes and does not imply that a relationship exists with the trademark owner. If other courts or regulators or other governmental bodies in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indices, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “—Changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations” below. It might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media. Third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims would likely be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages or limit our future use of integral technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have in recent years increasingly pursued patent protection for their technologies and business methods. If any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model or software application, we could be sued for infringement. Furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. From time to time, such complaints are filed by or we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. The number of these claims may grow. We have made, are making and expect to continue making expenditures related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. Responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. We may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. We may be required to pay damages, to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. There can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. From time to time we receive notices calling upon us to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. Therefore, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. We rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. We monitor our use of open source code to attempt to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. The terms of many open source code licenses, however, are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by U.S. courts. Accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) proprietary code that links to certain open source code modules, to re-engineer our products or systems or to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. Any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. We depend on the ability of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. The third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. We also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. Despite our efforts, our use of certain third party software and data has been challenged in the past and there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use in the future, resulting in increased software or data acquisition 19 Table of Contents costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. In addition, our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. Some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. Such errors can exist at any point in a product’s life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. We continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. Despite internal testing and testing by current and potential clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. If we detect any errors before we release a product, we might have to delay the product release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. We might not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Errors may occur in our products that could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third-party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations, or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. Furthermore, our clients may use our products together with their own software, data or products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our products do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, cause significant client relations problems or result in legal claims against us. The realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. To remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions. Failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industry in which we operate and the impact of technological change on our products, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance, including through integration, existing products and services, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. This requires accurate anticipation of clients’ changing needs and emerging investment trends. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients’ needs and generate the revenues required to provide the desired results. If, among other things, we fail to accurately anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our clients, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated or if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also see “—If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations” above. Integrating existing products and platforms and transitioning clients to enhanced products and services presents execution risks and challenges. If we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face competition across all markets for our products. Our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. Our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. There may also be consolidation among our competitors in the form of joint ventures or other business arrangements, which could allow for better capitalized competitors. In addition, barriers to entry may be low in many cases, including for single-purpose product companies. The Internet as a distribution channel has allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers 20 Table of Contents to entry even further. Low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or equity indices. Profit margin considerations, including those arising from financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients resulting from current economic conditions, may lead certain clients to seek products at a lower cost than what we provide. These competitive pressures may also result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. See “—Our clients that pay us a fee based on assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees” below. See “Part I.—Item 1. Business—Our Competition” above. Our business is dependent on the financial viability of our clients. If our clients consolidate or are negatively impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets and are forced to shut-down, consolidate, limit or reduce spending, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Most of our clients are in the financial services industry. For example, asset managers accounted for 60.7% and 60.5% of our revenues as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Ongoing economic weakness and volatility led to the closure or consolidation of a number of our clients, including asset manager, broker-dealer and hedge fund clients. This impacted our financial results, including our Run Rates and Aggregate and Core Retention Rates, in 2012 and 2011. Ongoing economic weakness and volatility continues to cause uncertainty and pressure on our clients’ spending, resulting in longer selling and renewing cycles, increased sales expenses and potentially increased cancellations. If such trends continue, we may not be able to generate or accurately plan for future growth and demand for our products may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a result of the global financial crisis, the U.S. Congress undertook major financial reform which led to the enactment on July 21, 2010 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a significant impact on many aspects of the way in which the financial services industry conducts business and will impose substantial new regulation on, and regulatory oversight of, a wide variety of financial services institutions. Although many of the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act will be largely unknown until the regulations have been finalized and implemented, complying with its requirements could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business, and results of operations. If our clients consolidate or do not remain financially viable or if the negative conditions in the financial markets persist or worsen, we may be forced to increase our provisions for bad debts, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our business is dependent on our clients’ continued investment in equity securities. If our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring portfolios. To the extent our clients significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, the demand for equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A portion of our business is dependent on our clients continuing to measure the performance of their equity investments against equity benchmarks. If our clients discontinue use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. If clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our indices could decrease. Any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our primary commercial model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at a specified location and by a given number of users or for a certain volume of products or services during that annual period. For most of our products, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. While 21 Table of Contents we believe the annual, recurring subscription model supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the Internet, and this trend may continue. The availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. Weak economic conditions also can result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. To the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have experienced significant growth since we began operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. Among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. See “—To remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions” above, “—We are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise” below, “Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 1.—Business.” Any failure to continue to grow our business and maintain profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to manage our operating costs as anticipated or our operating costs are higher than expected, our operating results may fluctuate significantly. We may experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased personnel costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, software development costs, professional fees and other costs. Additionally, we may not fully realize our strategic initiatives to manage our cost structure. If operating costs exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, our profitability may be reduced and our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. Our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by global factors that are beyond our control, including macroeconomic, political and market conditions, the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital, the level and volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates, inflation and ratings downgrades. Near-term predictions for the growth of the global economy remain weak. Concerns over the European debt crisis, the potential collapse of the Euro, ratings downgrades, the ability of the U.S. Government to manage the U.S. deficit and prolonged high unemployment have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and markets going forward. While we do not concentrate a significant amount of business in any one Eurozone country, we did derive 31.6% of our 2012 revenue from Europe. The general financial instability in any Eurozone country could have a contagion effect on the region and contribute to the general instability and uncertainty in the European Union. Unfavorable changes in global economic conditions may negatively impact the demand for our products and services and may also impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services or cause them to go out of business entirely, resulting in increased reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. Cash flows may also be impacted resulting in restricted access to capital markets, changes in currency exchange rates and delayed or underpayment by our customers. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. We must plan and manage our growth effectively to increase revenue and maintain profitability. Our growth, including in emerging market centers, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. There can also be no assurance 22 Table of Contents that, if we continue to grow internally or by way of acquisitions, management will be effective in attracting, training and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing growth. Any failure to effectively manage growth or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “—To remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions” above, “—We are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise” below, “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 1—Business.” There is considerable risk embedded in growth through acquisitions, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. An element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. Any acquisition could present a number of risks, including: • incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; • failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; • failure to achieve assumed synergies; • insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses, including where, as in the case of the IPD acquisition, the acquired company operates in many countries and in markets with which we have limited experience; • increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; • dilution of your common stock; • loss of key personnel; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities; and • inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. In the event that we experience a high level of acquisition related activity within a limited period of time the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See Item 1. Business—Company History and Acquisitions. Our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. We are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. Exchange rate movements can impact the U.S. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. A significant percentage of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For all operations outside the United States where the Company has designated the local non-U.S. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates. For these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the U.S. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders’ equity. In addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating expense (income). Revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 14.8% and 15.6% of operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. While our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in U.S. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product’s assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, declines in such other currencies 23 Table of Contents against the U.S. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. In addition, declines in such currencies against the U.S. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. We generally invoice our clients in U.S. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in Euros, British pounds sterling, Japanese yen and a limited number of other non-U.S. dollar currencies. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 12.6% and 13.4%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2012, 58.3% of our foreign currency revenues were in Euros, 21.8% were in Japanese yen and 12.1% were in British pounds sterling. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 60.6% of our foreign currency revenues were in Euros, 21.9% were in Japanese yen and 9.9% were in British pounds sterling. We are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. Approximately 34.5% and 34.1% of our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in British pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Euros, Hong Kong dollars, Hungarian forints, Indian rupees, and Mexican pesos. Expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the U.S. We have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances are remeasured into their local functional currency, a gain or loss results from the change in value of the functional currency. We manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. The objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the income statement impact associated with intercompany loans that are denominated in certain foreign currencies. As a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $2.6 million and foreign currency exchange gains of $1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Although we believe that our guidelines and policies are reasonable and prudent, any hedging instruments that we may enter into in the future may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. It is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients’ businesses. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. Some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could impact their demand for our products and services. There can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Investment Advisers Act. Except with respect to certain products provided by ISS and certain of its subsidiaries, we believe that our products do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”). Future developments in our product line or changes to the current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. It is possible that in addition to ISS, other entities in our corporate family may be required to become registered as an investment adviser under the Advisers Act or similar laws in states or foreign jurisdictions. The Advisers Act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. We may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. In addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. Compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. 24 Table of Contents • Data Privacy Legislation. Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. There could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing, data sales and business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues. Restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting some kinds of data could materially increase. It is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs. • Proposed Regulation for Fiduciaries. On October 21, 2010, the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”) issued a proposed regulation that would expand the definition of “fiduciary” under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”). As proposed, the definition of fiduciary would include, among others, an investment adviser that provides advice and recommendations to employee benefit plans regarding exercise of rights appurtenant to shares of stock (e.g., proxy voting). If this regulation were adopted as proposed, ISS could be deemed to be a fiduciary for purposes of ERISA. As such, it would be subject to ERISA’s prohibited transaction (e.g., conflict) provisions, which could have an impact on the manner in which ISS and its affiliates conduct business. On September 19, 2011, the DOL announced that it had withdrawn this proposal and would re-propose the regulation sometime in early 2012, a target date that was not met. It is now expected that the fiduciary rule will be reopened in the first half of 2013. • Proposed Proxy Plumbing Regulations. On July 14, 2010, the SEC voted unanimously to issue for public comment a concept release focusing on a wide range of topics related to the U.S. proxy voting system. The concept release focused on three general topics: (1) the accuracy, transparency and efficiency of the proxy voting system; (2) communications with shareholders and shareholder participation in voting; and (3) the relationship between voting power and economic interest, including questions about proxy advisory firms, such as ISS, and concerns raised by corporate issuers and other observers about the role, power and manner in which proxy advisory firms operate. The SEC may, but is not required, to engage in rulemaking with respect to the various issues and questions raised in the concept release. In its Fiscal Year 2012 Agency Final Report, the SEC indicated that it plans to develop recommendations in 2013 for an interpretive release addressing issues raised in the proxy plumbing concept release regarding proxy advisory firms. • Potential European Regulation of the Proxy Advisory Industry. Following a consultation conducted by the European Securities and Markets Authority (“ESMA”) with respect to the proxy advisory industry in Europe, ESMA has decided to encourage the proxy advisory industry to self-regulate by developing its own Code of Conduct. ESMA is recommending the development of a Code of Conduct that focuses on identifying, disclosing and managing conflicts of interest and that fosters transparency. ESMA will review the development of the Code of Conduct within two years of December 18, 2012 and may reconsider its position if no substantial progress has been made by that time. ESMA’s recommendation is expected to be considered by the European Commission which will then decide whether or not to take further action. At this point we are unable to determine whether the SEC or the European Commission will pursue rulemaking or legislation on these matters and, if so, the extent to which any rule or legislation might impact our businesses, including the process by which we provide proxy research and voting services to clients, the manner in which ISS operates as a proxy advisory firm, the business model that provides for both voting services to investor clients and governance advice to corporate clients, or otherwise. However, as with any regulatory change or the introduction of new legislation, we may have to change business practices and operational procedures and incur costs in response to possible modifications to the proxy system that could result from any rulemaking or legislation that stems from the SEC’s concept release, the adoption of the Code of Conduct encouraged by ESMA or action by the European Commission. • Potential and Proposed Regulation Affecting Benchmarks. On October 20, 2011, the European Commission issued proposals for MiFID/MiFIR 2 (COM (2011) 0652 and COM (2011) 0656), which among other things would mandate that where the value of a financial instrument is calculated by reference to a benchmark, a person with proprietary rights to the benchmark would be required to ensure that clearing entities and trading venues would be entitled to licenses to the benchmark as well as to relevant price and data feeds and information regarding the composition, methodology and pricing of the benchmark. Access to such information would have to be granted by the benchmark owner within three months of the request on a reasonable commercial basis, which in any event 25 Table of Contents would be at a price no higher than the lowest price at which access to the benchmark is granted to another clearing entity, trading venue or related person for clearing and trading purposes. At this point, we do not know whether the European Commission will adopt this or a similar proposal, or if it does so, when such a regulation would affect our index licensing business. On December 18, 2012, ESMA published guidelines on ETFs and other Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (“UCITS”) issues (ESMA/2012/832EN). These guidelines limit the types of indices that can be used as the basis of UCITS funds and would require, among other things, index constituents, together with their respective weightings, to be made easily accessible free of charge, such as via the internet, to investors and prospective investors on a delayed basis. The guidelines became effective as of February 17, 2013 with respect to newly launched UCITS funds. They become effective for all UCITS funds by February 17, 2014. We have made available a client communication with respect to our policies as they relate to the guidelines. Although the full effects of the guidelines will be largely unknown until we have more clarification from ESMA and/or individual regulators, complying with any related requirements could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, including a negative impact on our licensing of index data and/or our indices as the basis of ETFs and UCITS. See—“Legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. Third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights” above. Additionally, other jurisdictions outside of Europe could adopt similar concepts or regulations. On September 5, 2012, the European Commission published a consultation paper on the potential regulation of indices, including regulation regarding how benchmarks are calculated, the governance and transparency of benchmarks, the use of benchmarks, the public provision of benchmarks, and transition issues. On February 8, 2013, the European Commission published the summary of results of the consultation paper. Although the effects of any such legislation will be largely unknown unless and until the European Commission adopts any such legislation in response to this consultation paper, complying with such legislation could have a material adverse effect on our index business. On January 11, 2013, ESMA issued a Consultation Paper on Principles for Benchmarks-Setting Processes in the EU (ESMA/2013/12) and on January 14, 2013 the International Organization of Securities Commissions issued a Financial Benchmarks Consultation Report. MSCI has responded to both consultations and will await the results of those consultations. The effects of these consultations are unknown, but complying with any principles or guidelines resulting from these consultations that lead to a material change in on our business practices or diminish intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our index business. We may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. Our Performance and Risk products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. Our Governance products and services support the proxy voting processes of clients. Our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products or the failure to provide the services provided in client contracts. However, these provisions have certain exceptions and could result in the provision of credits, contractual penalties, or be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. Use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts. Any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. In addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. On May 4, 2012, we amended and restated our existing senior secured credit facilities consisting of a senior secured Term Loan B Facility and Revolving Credit Facility, which were originally entered into on June 1, 2010 as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of February 4, 2011 and Amendment No. 2 dated as of March 14, 2011 (the credit facility as so amended and restated, the “Amended and Restated Credit Facility”). The Amended and Restated Credit Facility provides for the incurrence of a new senior secured 5-year Term Loan A Facility in an aggregate amount of $880.0 million and a new $100.0 million senior secured revolving facility (“New Revolving Credit Facility”). The proceeds of the Amended and Restated Credit Facility, together with cash on hand, were used to prepay the remaining outstanding principal of the existing Term Loan B Facility. The Term Loan A Facility and New Revolving Credit Facility mature on May 4, 2017. 26 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2012, we had $858.0 million of indebtedness under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility, as amended, ($44.0 million in current maturities and $814.0 million in long term debt), $183.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $70.9 million in short-term investments. The Amended and Restated Credit Facility is guaranteed on a senior secured basis by each of our direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and secured by a valid and perfected first priority lien and security interest in substantially all of the shares of the capital stock of our present and future domestic subsidiaries and up to 65% of the shares of capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries, substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries’ present and future property and assets and the proceeds thereof. In addition, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing and future subsidiaries’ abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make or hold investments; make acquisitions, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm’s length basis; and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. The Amended and Restated Credit Facility also requires us and our subsidiaries to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with the following financial ratios on a consolidated basis until the termination of the Amended and Restated Credit Facility: (1) the maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall not exceed 3.25:1.00 and (2) the minimum interest coverage ratio (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall be at least 5.00:1.00. In addition, our Amended and Restated Credit Facility contains the following affirmative covenants, among others: periodic delivery of financial statements, budgets and officer’s certificates; payment of other obligations; compliance with laws and regulations; payment of taxes and other material obligations; maintenance of property and insurance; performance of material leases; right of the lenders to inspect property, books and records; notices of defaults and other material events; and maintenance of books and records. We may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. Our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic consequences; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow and proceeds of any additional equity issuances to payments of our indebtedness; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital and capital expenditures; limit our ability to consummate acquisitions; and increase our interest expense. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will maintain financing activities and cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. Increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of financing and fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. Adverse conditions in the domestic and global financial markets may increase our costs of financing and adversely affect our ability to refinance debt maturities, raise capital or fund other types of obligations. Any downgrades to our credit rating may likewise increase the cost and reduce the availability of financing. Further, our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars (“LIBOR”). LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, Federal Reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market. We are not required to enter into interest rate swaps to hedge our debt under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and we have not hedged our interest rate exposure and, accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period may fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. See also the discussion of interest rate risk in Part I, Item 3, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” If we do enter into interest rate swap agreements, developing an effective strategy for movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. In addition, the counterparty to a derivate instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. Further, we may have 27 Table of Contents to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivate instrument is terminated by us. Finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. As a result, our interest rate hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. Accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other technical personnel. Although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, the loss of a group of our key professional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. Competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Additionally, in connection with our IPO, we issued founders grants to some of our employees, the final tranche of which vested in November 2011 and are therefore no longer effective as a retention tool. If the equity incentive compensation plans that we currently have in place do not adequately compensate our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel our products may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the Internet, and any failures or disruptions may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. We depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems and its components, including our data centers, and the Internet. Heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, natural disasters, power loss or computer viruses could cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt their availability for periods of time. We have experienced and may experience again in the future denial-of-service attacks. While we have been able to defend our systems against such attacks in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future. Our ability to effectively use the Internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party Internet providers or increased government regulation. If disruptions, failures or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the Internet occur, our reputation and our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients, including those clients for whom we provide managed services, may be materially and adversely affected. For example, during fiscal 2012 we migrated certain of our applications and infrastructure to new data centers. As a result of this migration, we experienced some unanticipated interruption and delay with respect to the performance and delivery of certain of our products. While such issues have not resulted in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations, there is no assurance that they or future migrations will not have such effect in the future. As a result of such issues, we could be required to provide service credits, and experience cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services, resulting in decreased revenues. We may also experience increased cancellations and operating expenses to defend against and protect ourselves from such disruptions and attacks, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Any perceived conflicts of interest resulting from providing products and services to institutional investors in addition to proxy voting recommendations, or providing products and services to corporations which are the subject of our proxy recommendations or other products and services could harm our reputation and business. Institutional clients of our Governance business rely on ISS and certain of its affiliates to provide them with informed proxy vote recommendations, benchmark proxy voting guidelines and unbiased analyses of companies’ environmental, social and governance attributes. The institutional clients of both our Performance and Risk and Governance businesses, particularly hedge funds and more active institutional investors, may have material economic and other interests in the corporations on which the Governance business provides proxy analyses and ratings or which are the subject of our financial research and analysis products and services. In some cases these institutional clients pay us a significant amount of money for our Performance and Risk products and services and, accordingly, there may be a perception that we might advocate a particular position or provide research that supports a particular conclusion with respect to a corporation in order to satisfy the unique economic or other interests of a particular institutional client. As a result, institutional clients, competitors and 28 Table of Contents other market participants could raise questions about our ability to provide unbiased services, which could harm our reputation. Through our ISS Corporate Services subsidiary, we provide products and services to corporate clients who use these services to learn about and improve their corporate governance practices. Accordingly, there is potential for a perceived conflict of interest between the services we provide to institutional clients and the services, including our Compensation Advisory Services, provided to clients of the ISS Corporate Services subsidiary. For example, when we provide corporate governance services to a corporate client and at the same time provide proxy vote recommendations to institutional clients regarding that corporation’s proxy items, there may be a perception that the Governance business team providing research to our institutional clients may treat that corporation more favorably due to its use of services provided by ISS Corporate Services. We have implemented an information barrier and other procedures designed to prevent any potential conflict of interest from impacting the ability of our research team to provide unbiased analyses. The conflict management safeguards that we have implemented may not be adequate to manage these perceived conflicts of interest, and clients or competitors may question the integrity of our services. In the event that we fail to adequately manage perceived conflicts of interest, we could incur reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where we or our clients are located, and other events. We also depend on accessible office facilities for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. There is no assurance that the business continuity plans that we have sufficiently cover or reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events. Such events could also have a material adverse effect on our clients. For example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the World Trade Center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. In addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from New York-based suppliers was delayed. The grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. During the resulting temporary closure of the U.S. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. These types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. We are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. As we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. We have established and intend to further grow our presence in Mexico, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe and South America. Since 2007, we have opened offices in Budapest, Dubai, Monterrey, Seoul and Shanghai. A significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the United States and a number of those employees are located in emerging market centers. The cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, the laws and regulations in many countries applicable to our business are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. 29 Table of Contents In order to penetrate markets outside of the United States, we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. For example, the continued success of IPD’s products is dependent on understanding local real estate markets and maintaining relationships with local real estate industry bodies in the jurisdictions in which IPD operates. Demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. Many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and corporate governance and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. If we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the United States. There can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income taxes, in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. From time to time, we also implement changes to our global corporate structure. Changes in domestic and international tax laws could negatively impact our overall effective tax rate. Such changes include, but are not limited to, proposed legislation to reform U.S. taxation of international business activities. Although we believe that our tax provisions are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. To the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our statement of income for a particular future period. In addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. Changes in the legislative, regulatory and corporate environments in which ISS’s clients operate may adversely impact our financial results. ISS’s historical growth has been due, in large part, to increased regulatory requirements, highly visible corporate scandals, increased shareholder activism and corporate chief executive officers and boards of directors that are increasingly concerned about, and responsive to, shareholder concerns. To the extent that any of these trends change, the demand for ISS’s products and services could be reduced, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. To the extent these regulations change or are not extended to other markets, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. Our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. We have goodwill and intangible assets of $2,424.5 million recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2012. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring management’s judgment. Changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill which could be material to our results of operations. In addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. See Note 9, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein. The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. As a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. For example, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial conditions and the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with these rules and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. See “—Changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations” above. 30 Table of Contents In connection with our IPO and separation from Morgan Stanley, we entered into agreements with Morgan Stanley where we agreed to indemnify Morgan Stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. Pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with Morgan Stanley relating to the provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify Morgan Stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. Such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. The price of our stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses. For example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indices as the basis of ETFs; • loss of key clients (See “—Our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees” above); • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; • failure to produce or distribute our products; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive products; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • additions or departures of key personnel; • investors’ general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions in one or more significant regions around the world; and • changes in regulatory developments in the U.S., foreign countries or both and changes in other dynamics. In addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or 31 Table of Contents results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our common stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. This would include sales of our common stock underlying restricted shares of common stock and options to purchase shares of common stock granted in connection with our IPO and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plan. As of December 31, 2012, 120,114,586 shares of our common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In November 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the Securities Act the 12,500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the MSCI Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan and the 500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the Company or Morgan Stanley pursuant to the MSCI Independent Directors’ Equity Compensation Plan. As of December 31, 2012, we had issued 4,869,843 and 110,018 shares of common stock under the MSCI Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan and MSCI Independent Directors’ Equity Compensation Plan, respectively. In connection with the acquisition of RiskMetrics, we filed a registration statement registering under the Securities Act the 4,257,779 shares of MSCI common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to officers and certain employees of RiskMetrics pursuant to the RiskMetrics Group, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan, RiskMetrics Group, Inc. 2004 Stock Option Plan, Institutional Shareholder Services Holdings, Inc. Equity Incentive Plan and RiskMetrics Group, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (collectively, the “RMG Plans”). As of December 31, 2012, we had issued 2,620,951 shares of common stock under the RMG Plans. In June 2010, we also filed a registration statement assuming 3,060,090 shares available under the RiskMetrics Group, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan. As of December 31, 2012, we had issued 1,341,704 shares of common stock under this Plan, which terminated on June 30, 2012. Also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. The amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. Provisions in our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; • the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • the ability of our Board of Directors to make, alter or repeal our By-laws; and • the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. Generally, the amendment of our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires approval by our Board of Directors and a majority vote of shareholders. Any amendment to our By-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our Board of Directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our Board of Directors. Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our Board of Directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the 32 Table of Contents shares not owned by such person. These provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, including growth through acquisitions, to repay our debt and to repurchase shares pursuant to our Board authorized share repurchase program. The payment of any future dividends will be determined by the Board of Directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirements and other factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Nothing required to be disclosed. 