ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks associated with our business In addition to other information included in this report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. We are a development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing an initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We will not generate any revenues other than interest and dividends until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We may not be able to consummate an initial business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would be forced to liquidate our assets. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we have until December 6, 2009 to complete an initial business combination. If we fail to consummate an initial business combination within the required time frame, our corporate existence will, in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of an initial business combination. 8 If we are forced to liquidate before an initial business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete an initial business combination by December 6, 2009 and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our IPO, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking an initial business combination. As of December 31, 2008, the per-share liquidation price was approximately $7.98. However, we cannot assure you that we will in fact be able to distribute approximately $7.98 per share upon liquidation of the trust account, as a result of claims of creditors which may take priority over the claims of our public stockholders. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of an initial business combination. If we are unable to consummate an initial business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait until December 6, 2009 before receiving liquidation distributions. We have until December 6, 2009 to complete an initial business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to our public stockholders prior to such date unless we consummate an initial business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where public stockholders have sought conversion of their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete an initial business combination. Accordingly, public stockholders’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate an initial business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. There are numerous similarly structured blank check companies which have completed initial public offerings with business plans similar to ours and there are a number of additional offerings for blank check companies that are still in the registration process but have not completed initial public offerings. While some of those companies must complete an initial business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate an initial business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we are subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate an initial business combination within the required time period. If the funds available to us are insufficient to allow us to operate until December 6, 2009, we may be unable to complete an initial business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside the trust fund, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that is available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate at least until December 6, 2009, assuming that an initial business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit the funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. 9 If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of the target businesses we intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete an initial business combination since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our tax obligations and to complete our initial business combination. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital which we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes certain interest earned on the funds in the trust account, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our founders to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Our founders are under no obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. The report of the independent registered public accounting firm that audited our financial statements includes a “going concern” explanatory paragraph due to the possibility that we may not consummate a business combination within the required time frame, which will require us to dissolve and liquidate. The audit report in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, includes an explanatory paragraph that states that due to the possibility that a business combination may not be consummated within the required timeframe, there is “substantial doubt” about our ability to continue as a going concern. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of acquisition by December 6, 2009 (i.e., 24 months after the effective date of the registration statement covering the securities sold in our initial public offering). 10 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders may be less than approximately $7.98 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we are required to have all third parties (including any vendors or other entities we engage) and any prospective target businesses we negotiate with, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. There is also no guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than approximately $7.98 due to claims of such creditors. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, Sang-Chul Kim, our chairman and co-chief executive officer and SoftForum Co., Ltd., an affiliate of Mr. Kim, have agreed that they will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. However, they may not be able to satisfy those obligations. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust account, if we liquidate, will not be less than approximately $7.98, plus interest, due to such claims. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least approximately $7.98 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. If we are unable to complete an initial business combination by December 6, 2009, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant to Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, in which case we will as promptly as practicable thereafter adopt a plan of distribution in accordance with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 278 provides that our existence will continue for at least three years after its expiration for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits, whether civil, criminal or administrative, by or against us, and of enabling us gradually to settle and close our business, to dispose of and convey our property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our stockholders any remaining assets, but not for the purpose of continuing the business for which we were organized. Our existence will continue automatically even beyond the three-year period for the purpose of completing the prosecution or defense of suits begun prior to the expiration of the three-year period, until such time as any judgments, orders or decrees resulting from such suits are fully executed. Section 281(b) will require us to pay or make reasonable provision for all then-existing claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional, or unmatured contractual claims known to us, and to make such provision as will be reasonably likely to be sufficient to provide compensation for any then-pending claims and for claims that have not been made known to us or that have not arisen but that, based on facts known to us at the time, are likely to arise or to become known to us within 10 years after the date of dissolution. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) and potential target businesses. We intend to have all third parties (including any vendors or other entities that we engage in pursuit of a business combination) and prospective target businesses execute valid and enforceable agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account. Accordingly, we believe the claims that could be made against us should be limited, thereby lessening the likelihood that any claim would result in any liability extending to the trust. However, we cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. 11 If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after December 6, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. No warrant held by public stockholders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time such holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is current. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. If we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants held by public stockholders may have no value, the market for such warrants may be limited and such warrants may expire worthless. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the sponsors’ warrants may be exercisable for unregistered shares of common stock even if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current. 12 An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon the exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following our completion of a business combination), we expect to continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state, or we would register the warrants in every state (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, if we are incorrect in this belief, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Since we have not yet selected any target business with which to complete an initial business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations. We may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of that entity. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. We may not properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors inherent in a particular industry or target business. An investment in our units may also ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete an initial business combination. Issuance of our capital stock would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and may cause a change in control of our ownership, while the issuance of debt securities may have a significant impact on our ability to utilize our available cash. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 35,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. There are currently 10,451,494 authorized but unissued shares of common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete an initial business combination. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: 13 · may significantly reduce your equity interest in us; · may subordinate the rights of holders of shares of common stock if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; · may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control, such as that public stockholders owning 30% or more of the IPO shares vote against the initial business combination and opt to have us convert their stock for a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our stockholders approve the initial business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. 14 Our ability to successfully effect an initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following an initial business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the operation of the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following an initial business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate an initial business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of an initial business combination. All of our executive officers and directors are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate an initial business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity time should be allocated or a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may miss out on a potential transaction. 15 One of our officers and directors owns founders’ shares as well as warrants purchased simultaneously with our IPO. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, such officer and director may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination. One of our officers and directors owns founders’ shares as well as sponsors’ warrants purchased simultaneously with our IPO. Such individual has waived their right to receive distributions with respect to their initial shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the shares acquired prior to our IPO, as well as the sponsors’ warrants, will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of such director and officer may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our director’s and officer’s discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. The NYSE Alternext US LLC may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are currently quoted on the NYSE Alternext US LLC (“NYSE Alternext US”). In order to continue quotation of our securities, we must maintain certain financial, distribution and stock price levels. Generally, we must maintain a minimum amount in stockholders’ equity (usually between $2,000,000 and $4,000,000) and a minimum number of public shareholders (usually 300 shareholders). Additionally, our securities cannot have what is deemed to be a “low selling price” as determined by the Exchange. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the NYSE Alternext US will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to these more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. On February 10, 2009, we received notice from the NYSE Alternext US, LLC indicating that we were below certain additional continued listing standards of the exchange, specifically that we had not held an annual meeting of stockholders in 2008, as set forth in Section 704 of the Company Guide. The notification from the exchange indicated that we had until March 10, 2009 to submit a plan advising the exchange of action we would take to bring us into compliance with all continued listing standards by August 11, 2009. We submitted our plan on February 17, 2009. In the plan, we propose that if it appears likely that we will not execute a definitive agreement for our business combination prior to August 11, 2009, we will take all actions necessary to hold an annual meeting of stockholders by August 11, 2009 solely to elect directors pursuant to Section 704 of the Company Guide. However, if we have signed a definitive agreement for our business combination prior to August 11, 2009 (or if it is apparent that it will be signed shortly thereafter), we will hold our annual meeting of stockholders promptly after the SEC completes its review of our proxy statement for such transaction and allows us to hold the meeting. At such meeting, in addition to asking stockholders to approve the transaction, stockholders will also be asked to elect directors pursuant to Section 704 of the Company Guide. The exchange is now evaluating our plan and will make a determination as to whether we have made a reasonable demonstration in the plan of an ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards. If our plan is accepted, we will be able to continue our listing, during which time we will be subject to continued periodic review by the exchange’s staff. If our plan is not accepted, the exchange could initiate delisting procedures against us. 16 If the NYSE Alternext US delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our IPO, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with a target business having an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses at the same time. However, we may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating an initial business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the industry in which we ultimately operate. If we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses, we will need the acquisitions to be consummated at the same time, thereby making it more difficult for us to consummate a business combination. If we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. 17 We may proceed with an initial business combination even if public stockholders owning approximately 30% of the shares sold in the IPO exercise their conversion rights. We may proceed with an initial business combination as long as public stockholders owning less than 30% of the IPO shares exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, public stockholders holding up to approximately 29.99% of the IPO shares may exercise their conversion rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have set the conversion percentage at 30% in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing an initial business combination that is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. Our business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of stockholders exercise their conversion rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following an initial business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our founders) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the initial business combination and the initial business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of public stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate an initial business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. 18 We may require stockholders who wish to convert their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights prior to the deadline for exercising their rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to either tender their certificates to our transfer agent at any time prior to the vote taken at the stockholder meeting relating to such initial business combination or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. While we have been advised that it takes a short time to deliver shares through the DWAC System, we cannot assure you of this fact. Accordingly, if it takes longer than we anticipate for stockholders to deliver their shares, stockholders who wish to convert may be unable to meet the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus may be unable to convert their shares. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Additionally, because of our structure, there may be fewer attractive target businesses available to acquire or privately held target businesses may not be inclined to enter into a transaction with a publicly held blank check company like us. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete an initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. If the net proceeds of our IPO prove to be insufficient to allow us to consummate a particular business combination either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. The current global credit crisis is making it difficult, if not impossible, for companies to obtain financing for acquisitions and operational growth. There is no indication when this credit crisis will abate. Accordingly, financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. 19 Our founders, including one of our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our founders (including one of our officers and directors) collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Our founders are not restricted from purchasing additional units or shares of common stock in the open market or in private tractions. Additional purchases of shares of common stock by our founders, including one of our officers or directors, would likely allow them to exert more influence over the approval of our initial business combination. These individuals may have substantial financial interests in making these types of purchases. Furthermore, these purchases may make it less likely that the holders of 30% or more of the IPO shares vote against a business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Our board of directors is and will be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of an initial business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the initial business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our founders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our founders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of an initial business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect an initial business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 9,732,669 shares of common stock as part of the units offered in the IPO. We also sold the sponsors’ warrants to purchase 2,650,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect an initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the initial business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate an initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of a sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience a substantial dilution of your holdings. 20 Our management’s ability to require holders of our warrants to exercise such warrants on a cashless basis will cause holders to receive fewer shares of common stock upon their exercise of the warrants than they would have received had they been able to exercise their warrants for cash. If we call our warrants for redemption after the redemption criteria described in the prospectus for our IPO have been satisfied, our management will have the option to require any holder that wishes to exercise his warrant to do so on a “cashless basis.” If our management chooses to require holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, the number of shares of common stock received by a holder upon exercise will be fewer than it would have been had such holder exercised his warrant for cash. This will have the effect of reducing the potential “upside” of the holder’s investment in our company. If our founders or the holders of the sponsors’ warrants exercise their registration rights with respect to their founders’ shares or sponsors’ warrants and underlying shares, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect an initial business combination. The founders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of the founders’ shares at any time commencing nine months after the consummation of our initial business combination. Additionally, the holders of the sponsors’ warrants are entitled to demand that we register the resale of such warrants and underlying shares of common stock at any time after we consummate an initial business combination. If such individuals exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 2,433,168 shares of common stock and 2,650,000 warrants (as well as 2,650,000 shares of common stock underlying the warrants) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional securities trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate an initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into an initial business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential negative effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete an initial business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Since we have invested the IPO proceeds held in the trust account, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trustee only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete an initial business combination, including: 21 · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. · In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. If we effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States. If we do, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: · rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; · tariffs and trade barriers; · regulations related to customs and import/export matters; · longer payment cycles; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; · currency fluctuations and exchange controls; · challenges in collecting accounts receivable; · cultural and language differences; and · employment regulations. If we were unable to adequately address these additional risks, our operations might suffer. If we effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. 22 Risks Associated with the Energy and Environmental Industries and Their Related Infrastructures Business combinations with companies with operations in the energy and environmental industries and their related infrastructures entail special considerations and risks. If we are successful in completing a business combination with a target business with operations in the energy and environmental industries and their related infrastructures, we will be subject to, and possibly adversely affected by, the following risks: Fluctuations in energy prices may cause a reduction in the demand or profitability of the products or services we may ultimately produce or offer. Prices for energy sources such as oil and natural gas tend to fluctuate widely based on a variety of political and economic factors. These price fluctuations heavily influence both the energy and environmental industries and their related infrastructures. Lower energy prices for existing products tend to limit the demand for alternate forms of energy services and related products and infrastructure. Factors that impact price fluctuations include the actions of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, the level of production by non-OPEC countries, worldwide demand for oil and natural gas, political tensions involving OPEC and non-OPEC countries and other varying factors. If we complete a business combination with a target business that is involved with an energy source that is affected by these or other factors, there may be a decrease in the demand for the products or services we may ultimately produce or offer and our profitability could be adversely affected. Changes in technology may render our products or services obsolete following a business combination. Both the energy and environmental industries and their related infrastructures are substantially affected by rapid and significant changes in technology. These changes may render certain existing services and technologies currently used obsolete. The technologies used by or relied upon by a target business with which we effect a business combination may be subject to such obsolescence. While we may attempt to adapt and apply the services provided by the target business to newer technologies, our resources may be insufficient to fund these changes or these changes may ultimately prove unsuccessful. 23 Failure to comply with governmental regulations could result in the imposition of penalties, fines or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. Both the energy and environmental industries are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations related to health and safety and those associated with compliance and permitting obligations (including those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge, emission and disposal of municipal solid waste and other waste, pollutants or hazardous substances or wastes, or discharges and air and other emissions) as well as land use and development. Existing laws also impose obligations to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Compliance with these laws, regulations and obligations could require substantial capital expenditures. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of penalties, fines or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. These costs and liabilities could adversely affect our operations following a business combination. These laws, regulations and obligations could change with the promulgation of new laws and regulations or a change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, which could result in substantially similar risks. We may not be able to comply with existing or new regulations. If we are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for our operations following a business combination, we may be forced to suspend or cease our operations altogether. The construction and operation of energy projects require numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. We may not be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals following a business combination. If we are unable to obtain or renew permits or approvals necessary for the operation of our business following a business combination, our operations would be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a significant risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. Regulation within the energy industry could reduce our profitability following a business combination. Essentially all of the energy sectors including electric generation, transmission and distribution, natural gas transmission and distribution, and oil transportation are subject to highly technical Federal and state regulatory regimes. Rates, terms of service, facility sites, financing, dividend payments, wages, divestitures, changes in control and business dealings with affiliates are all subject to ongoing regulatory disclosure and approval on the merits. The failure or refusal of any jurisdictional regulator to grant approval as to any particular rate, service or transaction could prove harmful to us, as could the occurrence of any dispute with a regulator. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 