ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks could affect (and in some cases have affected) the Company’s actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from estimates or expectations reflected in certain forward-looking statements: The Company’s substantial indebtedness may adversely affect its financial health, its ability to obtain financing in the future, and its ability to react to changes in its business. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.2 billion of outstanding debt. Because of the Company’s substantial debt, the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be restricted in the future. The Company is also exposed to the risk of increased interest costs because approximately $0.7 billion of its debt is at variable rates of interest. As such, a significant portion of the Company’s cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes. In 2009, the Company estimates it will pay between $210 million and $220 million in interest on its outstanding debt obligations. Additionally, the Company’s Credit Agreement contains covenants that prohibit or restrict, among other things, the disposal of assets, the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including guarantees), payment of 15 Table of Contents dividends, loans or advances and certain other types of transactions. The covenants also require compliance with a maximum consolidated secured leverage ratio. The Company’s ability to comply in future periods with the financial covenants will depend on its ongoing financial and operating performance. The substantial debt and the restrictions under the Credit Agreement could limit the Company’s flexibility to respond to changing market conditions and competitive pressures, as well as its ability to withstand competitive pressures. The material outstanding debt obligations and the Credit Agreement restrictions may also leave the Company more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or its business or unable to carry out capital expenditures that are necessary or important to its growth strategy and productivity improvement programs. In light of the continuing volatility in the financial services industry, the Company’s reliance on a large number of financial institutions for a significant portion of its cash requirements could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and cash flow. The credit and securities markets exhibited extreme volatility and disruption throughout 2008. The Company has exposure to many companies in the financial services industry, particularly commercial and investment banks who participate in its revolving credit facility and who are counterparties to the Company’s interest rate swaps and natural gas and currency hedges. The failure of these financial institutions, or their inability or unwillingness to fund the Company’s revolving credit facility or fulfill their obligations under swaps and hedges could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s liquidity position and cash flow. Reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of the Company’s customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. This could negatively impact the Company’s ability to timely collect receivables and to obtain raw materials and supplies. Significant increases in prices for raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Availability of and increases in the costs of raw materials, including petroleum-based materials, the cost of energy, the cost of wood primarily for the West Monroe mill, transportation and other necessary services could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. The Company is also limited in its ability to pass along such cost increases to customers due to contractual provisions and competitive reasons. There is no guarantee that the Company’s efforts to reduce costs will be successful. The Company utilizes a global continuous improvement initiative that uses statistical process control to help design and manage many types of activities, including production and maintenance. The Company’s ability to implement successfully its business strategies and to realize anticipated savings is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. These strategies include the infrastructure and reliability improvements at the Company’s West Monroe mill. If the Company cannot successfully implement the strategic cost reductions or other cost savings plans it may not be able to compete successfully against other manufacturers. In addition, any failure to generate the anticipated efficiencies and savings could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Work stoppages and other labor relations matters may make it substantially more difficult or expensive for the Company to manufacture and distribute its products, which could result in decreased sales or increased costs, either of which would negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 52% of the Company’s workforce is represented by labor unions, whose goals and objectives may differ significantly from the Company’s. The Company may not be able to successfully negotiate new union contracts covering the employees at its various sites without work stoppages or labor difficulties. These events may also occur as a result of other factors. A prolonged disruption at any of the Company’s facilities due to work stoppages or labor difficulties could have a material adverse effect on its net 16 Table of Contents sales, margins and cash flows. In addition, if new union contracts contain significant increases in wages or other benefits, the Company’s margins would be adversely impacted. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights, which could harm its future success and competitive position. The Company’s future success and competitive position depend in part upon its ability to obtain and maintain protection for certain proprietary carton and packaging machine technologies used in its value-added products, particularly those incorporating the Fridge Vendor, IntegraPak, MicroFlex Q, MicroRite, Quilt Wave, Qwik Crisp, Z-Flute, and DI-NA-CAL technologies. Failure to protect the Company’s existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or may require it to license other companies’ intellectual property rights. It is possible that any of the patents owned by the Company may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others or any of its pending or future patent applications may not be issued within the scope of the claims sought by the Company, if at all. Further, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to the Company’s technologies, duplicate its technologies or design around its patents, and steps taken by the Company to protect its technologies may not prevent misappropriation of such technologies. The Company is subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and costs to comply with such laws and regulations, or any liability or obligation imposed under such laws or regulations, could negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to a broad range of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing discharges to air, soil and water, the management, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of hazardous substances, and the health and safety of employees. Environmental liabilities and obligations may result in significant costs, which could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s operations outside the U.S. are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. The Company has several converting plants in 6 foreign countries and sells its products worldwide. For 2008, before intercompany eliminations, net sales from operations outside of the U.S. represented approximately 11% of the Company’s net sales. The Company’s revenues from export sales fluctuate with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2008, approximately 4% of its total assets were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company has significant operations in countries that use the British pound sterling, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen or the euro as their functional currencies. The Company cannot predict major currency fluctuations. The Company pursues a currency hedging program in order to limit the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on financial results. The Company is also subject to the following significant risks associated with operating in foreign countries: • adverse political and economic conditions; • compliance with and enforcement of environmental, health and safety and labor laws and other regulations of the foreign countries in which the Company operates; • export compliance; • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; and • imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments. If any of the above events were to occur, the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted, possibly materially. 17 Table of Contents The anticipated benefits of combining the operations of the Company and Altivity may not be fully realized, and the Company may face difficulties integrating Altivity’s operations. The Company and BCH entered into the Altivity Transaction with the expectation that the transaction would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost synergies and operating efficiencies. However, the achievement of the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including the cost synergies, cannot be assured or may take longer than expected. In addition, the Company may not be able to integrate Altivity’s operations with the Company’s existing operations without encountering difficulties, including: • inconsistencies in standards, systems and controls; • the diversion of management’s focus and resources from ordinary business activities and opportunities; • difficulties in achieving expected cost savings associated with the transaction; • difficulties in the assimilation of employees and in creating a unified corporate culture; • challenges in retaining existing customers and obtaining new customers; and • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. These risks may be exacerbated by the fact that Altivity is the result of the combination of the Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation’s Consumer Packaging Division and the Field Companies in 2006. As a result of these risks, the Company may not be able to realize the expected revenue and cash flow growth and other benefits that it expects to achieve from the transaction. In addition, the Company may be required to spend additional time or money on integration efforts that would otherwise have been spent on the development and expansion of its business and services. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 