Item 1a. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business Our results can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost or availability of materials used in our manufacturing processes. The key raw materials we use in our products are surfactants, polymers and resins, fragrances, water, and solvents and other petroleum-based materials, and packaging materials. We do not engage in significant commodity hedging transactions for raw materials, though we have committed and will continue to commit to purchase certain materials for specified periods of time. Significant increases in the prices of our products due to increases in the cost of raw materials or packaging materials could have a negative effect on demand for products and on profitability. Many of the raw materials that we use are energy dependent, and, therefore are subject to the availability and price of energy related inputs such as oil and natural gas. Failure to effectively manage future increases in the costs of these materials could adversely affect our ability to achieve operating margins acceptable to stockholders. Furthermore, there are a limited number of suppliers for some of our raw materials, packaging materials, and finished goods. Our profitability and volume could be negatively impacted by limitations inherent within the supply chain of certain of these materials, including competitive conditions, governmental issues, legal issues, natural disasters, and other events that could impact both the availability and price of the materials. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We face significant competition and may face more significant competition in the future. The cleaning and maintenance solutions industry is highly competitive. Overall, competition is fragmented in the commercial, industrial, and institutional end-market, with numerous local and regional operators selling directly to customers, distributors, and a few national competitors. Many of these competitors offer products in some of the markets we serve. Competition is based primarily on brand name recognition, price, product quality, and customer service. Competitors in the commercial, industrial, and institutional end-market include but are not limited to Ecolab Inc., JohnsonDiversey Holdings, Inc., Arch Chemicals, Inc., RPM International, Inc., NCH Corporation, Rochester Midland Corporation, and State Chemical Manufacturing Company. Many companies compete within the broader retail market for cleaning chemical products including but not limited to Church & Dwight Co., Inc., Procter and Gamble, WD-40 Company, Reckitt Benckiser plc, S.C. Johnson & Sons, Inc., Sunshine Makers, Inc., and The Clorox Company. We also compete in the home improvement channel with pest control companies such as Bayer, A.G., Spectrum Brands, Inc., and The Scott’s Company. Furthermore, barriers to entry and expansion in the industry are low, which may lead to additional competitive pressure in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that change in the source or intensity of competitive pressure in the industry will not result in reduced market share that could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. We may develop unexpected legal contingencies or lose insurance coverage. We are subject to various claims, including legal claims arising in the normal course of business. As of August 31, 2008, we were insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims with a self-insurance retention of $0.5 million per occurrence, including toxic tort and other product liability claims, and are fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, commercial disputes, patent infringement and errors and omissions. Based on our historical claims experience, our comprehensive general liability self-insurance retention limits have been increased to $1.5 million per occurrence for claims incurred after August 31, 2008. We establish reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts reserved for such claims. In the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolutions of such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain current levels of insurance coverage for all matters that are currently insured for costs that we consider reasonable. Our insurance coverage is negotiated on an annual basis, and our insurance policies in the future may have coverage exclusions that would cause our costs for claims to rise. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and we may be exposed to substantial environmental, health, and safety costs and liabilities. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental, health, and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment, and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, and the remediation of environmental contamination and working conditions for our employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund, the Clean Water Act, and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions world-wide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct, on those persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements laws may impact the manufacture and distribution of our products and place restrictions on the products we can sell in certain geographical locations. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third party locations, and past activities. We have established reserves for environmental remediation activities and liabilities where appropriate. However, the cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto) cannot be predicted with certainty, and these reserves may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions, changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, our potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not previously been established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital and other ongoing expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the failure to comply with our obligations under the environmental laws and regulations could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, obligations to pay damages or other costs, and injunctions or other orders, including orders to cease operations. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at our properties could adversely affect our ability to sell property, receive full value for a property, or use a property as collateral for a loan. In June 2007, we reached a final resolution of the investigation by the United States Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) of certain environmental issues at our primary manufacturing facility, located in Atlanta, Georgia. In connection with this resolution we are subject to a three-year probation period that incorporates a compliance agreement with the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”). Under the compliance agreement, we are required to maintain an enhanced compliance program. The resolution of this matter is not expected to lead to a material loss of business, any disruption of production, or materially higher operating costs. However, in the event of our material breach of the compliance agreement, those consequences could occur. We are currently a party to federal and state administrative proceedings arising under federal and state laws enacted for the protection of the environment where a state or federal agency or a private party alleges that hazardous substances generated by Zep have been discharged into the environment and a state or federal agency is requiring a cleanup of soil and/or groundwater pursuant to federal or state superfund laws. In each of these proceedings in which Zep has been named as a party that allegedly generated hazardous substances that were transported to a waste site owned and operated by another party, (1) Zep is one of many other identified generators who have reached an agreement on the allocation of costs for cleanup among the various generators and Zep’s potential liability is not material; or (2) Zep has been identified as a potential generator and the sites have been remediated by the EPA or by a state for a cost that is not material; or (3) other generators have cleaned up the site and have not pursued a claim against Zep and Zep’s liability, if any, would not be material. With respect to the only active site involving property which we own and where we have been named as a potentially responsible party—our property on Seaboard Industrial Boulevard in Atlanta, Georgia—we and the current and former owners of adjoining properties had reached agreement to share the expected costs and responsibilities of implementing an approved corrective action plan, submitted in 2004, under the Georgia Hazardous Response Act (“HSRA”) to periodically monitor property along a nearby stream for a period of five years ending in 2009. Subsequently, in connection with the DOJ investigation described earlier, we and the EPA each analyzed samples taken from certain sumps at the 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Seaboard facility. The sample results from some of the sump tests indicated the presence of certain hazardous substances. As a result, we notified the Georgia Environmental Protection Division (the “EPD”) and conducted additional soil and groundwater studies pursuant to HSRA. We have submitted a corrective action plan to address the subsurface contamination north of Seaboard Industrial Boulevard, and we are currently discussing a proposed consent order with the EPD regarding our remediation efforts. We are conducting voluntary subsurface remediation of the Seaboard site. In January 2008, the EPA issued a Notice of Violation and document request regarding the use and management of certain trench drains at the Seaboard production facility as well as assorted minor waste labeling issues. We responded to the request and are in discussions with the EPA and EPD to resolve this matter. In May 2007, we accrued a pretax liability of $5.0 million representing our best estimate of costs associated with voluntary sub-surface remediation, primarily to remove contaminants from soil underlying one of our manufacturing facilities, and other related environmental issues. While over approximately the next four years we could expend an amount ranging up to $7.5 million on these efforts, our best estimate of voluntary remediation costs continues to be $5.0 million. To date we have expended approximately $0.9 million of the $5.0 million reserve established in May 2007. Further sampling, engineering studies, changes in regulatory requirements and/or final resolution of the proposed consent order could cause us to revise the current estimate. We believe that additional expenditures after four years of remediation may be necessary and that those expenditures, based on currently available information, could range up to an additional $10.0 million during the subsequent twenty-five year period. It may be appropriate to capitalize certain of the expenditures that might be incurred in this twenty-five year period. We arrived at the current estimates on the basis of studies prepared by independent third party environmental consulting firms. The actual cost of remediation will vary depending upon the results of additional testing and geological studies, the success of initial remediation efforts in the first five years addressing the most significant areas of contamination, the rate at which site conditions may change, and the requirements of the EPD. We use hazardous materials and chemicals in our manufacturing processes which could result in claims against us. We use a variety of hazardous materials and chemicals in our manufacturing processes and in connection with maintenance work on our manufacturing facilities. Because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims or removal or re-treatment of such substances. In addition, although we have developed environmental, health, and safety programs for our employees, including measures to reduce employee exposure to hazardous substances, and conduct regular assessments at our facilities, we may be involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury as a result of occupational exposure to substances or other hazards at our current or former facilities. Due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such claims or lawsuits that may arise. If any such claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, were resolved against us, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. If our products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or become adulterated, we may need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured. We may need to recall some of our products if they are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or if they become adulterated. Our quality control procedures relating to the raw materials, including packaging, that we receive from third-party suppliers as well as our quality control procedures relating to our products after our products are formulated and packaged may not be sufficient. We have 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements previously initiated a product recall as a result of potentially faulty packaging of our products, and widespread product recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We may also be liable if the use of any of our products causes injury, and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We rely on a variety of third party service providers for transportation of our products between our facilities and from our facilities to our customers. We rely upon third party carriers for safe and timely delivery of our shipments. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including labor difficulties, inclement weather, terrorist activity, and increased fuel costs. Furthermore, mishandling of our products by the third party carriers could subject us to product liability claims or other costs and liabilities. Disruptions at our most significant facilities could affect our profitability and harm our relationship with significant customers. Over the past three years, approximately 50% of our manufactured products were produced at our Atlanta, Georgia (Seaboard) facility. In addition, our Emerson, Georgia facility packages the majority of our products sold to retail end-markets. We also maintain a national distribution center in Atlanta, Georgia. A material disruption of the operations of any of these facilities due to a natural disaster, work stoppages, power outages, or any other cause could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain desired levels of profitability and volume and could affect our relationship with our most significant customers. We may be unable to sustain significant customer relationships. Relationships forged with customers, including The Home Depot, which represented approximately 10%, 11%, and 12% of our total net sales during the three fiscal years ended August 31, 2008, respectively, are directly impacted by our ability to deliver high quality products and service. We do not have a written contract obligating The Home Depot to purchase our products. The loss of or substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by The Home Depot would harm our sales and profitability. We may not be able to attract and retain sufficiently qualified sales representatives and other personnel. Our success is dependent upon the continued service of our highly skilled workforce and our ability to attract and retain new personnel. The challenge to attract top talent is a formidable one given the competition for such talent within our markets. In particular, we have historically experienced substantial turnover in sales representatives who have less than two years experience. This turnover in our sales force on a monthly basis increases our hiring and training expenses and can interrupt continuity with some of our customers. In addition, we are continuing to expand our sales efforts into alternative sales channels, including wholesale distribution through our Zep Professional product line. Widespread sales of our products through wholesale distribution could reduce the sales of our products by sales representatives in certain regions, which could lead to the loss of sales representatives and/or disputes over the terms of sales and commission agreements. We also have instituted stricter performance standards for our sales representatives. Failure to meet these standards could result in loss of employment for the sales representative, loss of customers and potential for lawsuits. Significant employee turnover and failure to maintain a qualified workforce could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we are unable to protect our information and telecommunication systems against disruptions or failures, our operations could be disrupted. We are increasingly dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, determining reorder points and placing purchase orders on our suppliers, making cash disbursements, blending chemicals, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing, and electronic communications among our locations and between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. We also depend on our telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. We have experienced system disruptions in the past that have adversely affected our ability to effectively manage our operations and service our customers. Future system disruptions, security breaches, or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or may result in financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. We may not properly execute, or realize anticipated cost savings or benefits from, our ongoing strategic transformation initiatives, information technology, or other initiatives. Our success is partly dependent upon properly executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from, our ongoing strategic transformation initiatives (a discussion of which is provided within Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), information technology, and other initiatives. These initiatives are primarily designed to make us more efficient in the sales, manufacture, and distribution of our products. These initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in an interruption to our sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, or accounting functions. Furthermore, we have invested a significant amount of capital into a number of these initiatives, which might have been more efficiently used if the full cost savings or benefits are not realized. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results including the requirement to reduce the book value of some assets. We may pursue future growth through strategic acquisitions from which we may not receive the benefits that we anticipate. We may endeavor to expand and improve our business through strategic acquisitions. We will gain from such activity only to the extent that we can effectively leverage the assets, including personnel, and operating processes of the acquired businesses. Uncertainty is inherent within the acquisition process, and unforeseen circumstances arising from future acquisitions could offset our anticipated benefits. Any of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, including our ability to generate positive operating cash flows. We are subject to risks related to our operations outside the United States. We have operations outside the United States. Net sales outside the United States represented approximately 23% of our total net sales for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2008. Furthermore, as of August 31, 2008, approximately 10% of our products were manufactured outside the United States. In addition to the risks that are common to both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations, we face risks related to our foreign operations such as: • foreign currency fluctuations; • unstable political, economic, financial, and market conditions; • trade restrictions; 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • increases in tariffs and taxes; • high levels of inflation; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; • greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • higher social and legal costs; and • interpretation of foreign laws and regulations. Some of these risks have affected our business in the past and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in the future. Our results depend upon the continued vitality of the markets we serve. Economic downturns, and in particular downturns that affect the transportation, food processing and service, manufacturing, government and housekeeping markets, can adversely impact our end-users. During such downturns, these end-users typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning products, which would likely, in turn, have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. In the future we may expand our operations by developing new or complementary products and continuing to expand our sales and marketing and customer service organizations. We intend to continue exploring alternative channels of distribution for our products, which could conflict with our current methods of distribution and our commission-based compensation structure for our sales representatives. In addition, we have imposed minimum performance expectations with respect to our industrial and institutional sales force, terminating the employment of those who fail to satisfy these standards. These changes may harm our relationship with our sales force and lead to increased turnover of our sales representatives. If we are unable to effectively implement these plans, to manage the turnover of customer accounts associated with departing sales representatives and to otherwise manage our expanding operations, we may not be able to execute our business strategy and our operating results could significantly decrease. If we are unable to keep and protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete may be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our brand names. We own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used by us in connection with the packaging, marketing, and distribution of our major products both in the United States and in other countries where our products are principally sold. In addition, we possess trade secret product formulations and other product information, some of which are patented, which are competitively sensitive. Intellectual property protection is important to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our intellectual property rights may be substantial. We cannot be certain that we will be able to assert our intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our brand names in the marketplace. Any infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a diversion of our time and 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. Finally, others may claim that our business or products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Any failure by us to protect our trademarks and trade names, or any adverse judgment with respect to infringement of others’ intellectual property rights, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage or increased organized labor activity. As of August 31, 2008, approximately 285 of our 2,520 employees were members of eight unions in the United States and Europe. While we consider our relations with employees to be generally good, we cannot assure you that we will not experience work stoppages, strikes, or slowdowns in the future. A prolonged work stoppage, strike, or slowdown could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that, upon expiration of any of our existing collective bargaining agreements, new agreements will be reached without union action or that any new agreement will be on terms satisfactory to us. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our non-union facilities will not become subject to labor union organizing efforts. If any current non-union facilities were to unionize, we would incur increased risk of work stoppages and possibly higher labor costs. We have incurred indebtedness in the normal course of business, which subjects us to various restrictions that could limit our operating flexibility. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a $100.0 million revolving credit facility that will mature in 2012. Upon the consummation of the spin-off we borrowed $62.5 million under this facility, all of which was distributed to Acuity Brands in connection with the spin-off. In addition, we are responsible for $7.2 million in industrial revenue bonds due in 2018. These financing arrangements contain customary restrictions, covenants, and events of default. The terms of these financing arrangements impose and any future indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities. Access to capital markets necessary to support current operations and future growth plans may not be available. As of August 31, 2008, we had additional borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility of $45.7 million. We entered into four interest rate swap arrangements during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 effectively swapping the variable interest rate associated with $20 million of borrowings made under our revolving credit facility for fixed rates ranging from 3.2% to 3.5%. We do not rely on commercial paper issuances to finance our business, and reduced our debt, net of cash, position approximately 32% during fiscal 2008 to $44.6 million. While our $40 million, one-year Credit and Security Agreement was allowed to expire in the normal course in October 2008, we did not utilize this facility during its term and do not believe the borrowing capacity it previously afforded is integral to the funding of our operations. Based on our current cash on hand, current financing arrangements, and current projections of cash flow from operations, management believes that we will be able to meet the liquidity needs of our current business over the next twelve months. However, current economic conditions have significantly constrained the ability to borrow money and substantially increased the associated costs of accessing capital markets, which could impact future profitability. While we have relationships with six banks in our revolving credit facility, the failure of any one or more of those banks or other financial institutions may impact the Company’s ability to borrow money to finance its operating activities. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Local, state, and federal governments are placing increasingly stringent regulations on the security of chemical plant locations, the transportation of hazardous chemicals, and the environmental impact of chemical production. Growing public and political attention has been placed on protecting critical infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats. Terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concern regarding the security of chemical production and distribution. In addition, local, state, and federal governments have enacted, and may in the future enact, increasingly stringent regulations that impact the security of chemical plant locations, the transportation of hazardous chemicals, and the environmental impact of chemical production, which could result in higher operating costs and interruptions in normal business operations. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and you may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future for many reasons, including for reasons unrelated to our performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by our customers, competitors, or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as general economic and industry conditions. Additional factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall include but are not limited to the following: • variations in our quarterly results; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new products or services or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel or key groups of personnel; • the gain or loss of significant orders; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • the disruption of supply and/or price of key raw materials; • significant changes in regulatory requirements; • increased litigation resulting from product or employee claims; • adverse developments concerning environmental matters; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our stock; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to our Spin-off from Acuity Brands We have a limited operating history as an independent public company and may be unable to operate as profitably a stand-alone company as we operated as a segment of Acuity Brands. We have only operated as an independent public company since October 31, 2007. Prior to the Distribution, the businesses that comprised each of Acuity Brands and Zep were under one ultimate parent, and each of those businesses was able to rely, to some degree, on the earnings, assets, and cash flows of the others for capital requirements. After the spin-off, we are able to rely only on the specialty chemicals business for such requirements. While the specialty chemicals business was a profitable segment of Acuity Brands, we cannot assure you that, as an independent company, profits will continue at the same level. Historical financial information may be of limited relevance. The historical financial information preceding the Distribution and included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not reflect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows in the future and only estimates our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows had we operated as a separate stand-alone public entity during the periods presented. The financial information included herein does not reflect any changes that may have occurred or may occur in our funding and operations as a result of the spin-off. Failure of the spin-off to qualify as a tax-free transaction could result in substantial liability. Acuity Brands has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that, among other things, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to Acuity Brands, us, and Acuity Brands stockholders for United States federal income tax purposes under Section 355 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the Internal Revenue Service, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Acuity Brands will not be able to rely on the ruling. Moreover, the Internal Revenue Service will not rule on whether a distribution of shares satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. Rather, the private letter ruling is based upon representations by Acuity Brands that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. Acuity Brands and Zep Inc. have received an opinion of King & Spalding LLP, counsel to Acuity Brands and us, to the effect that, with respect to the requirements referred to above on which the Internal Revenue Service will not rule, those requirements will be satisfied. The opinion is based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Acuity Brands and us which, if untrue or incomplete in any material respect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and the Internal Revenue Service or the courts may not agree with the opinion. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, a substantial corporate tax would be payable by Acuity Brands, measured by the difference between (1) the aggregate fair market value of the shares of our common stock on the date of the spin-off and (2) Acuity Brands’ adjusted tax basis in the shares of our common stock on the date of the spin-off. The corporate level tax would be payable by Acuity Brands. However, we have agreed under certain circumstances to indemnify Acuity Brands for this tax liability. This indemnification obligation, if triggered, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, under the applicable Treasury regulations, each member of Acuity Brands’ consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including us) is severally liable for such tax liability. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as tax-free, Acuity Brands nevertheless could incur a substantial corporate tax liability under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, if 50 percent or more of our stock or the stock of Acuity Brands were to be acquired as part of a “plan (or a series of related transactions)” that includes the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions of the stock of Acuity Brands or of our stock that occur within two years before or after the spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan, although Acuity Brands may be able to rebut that presumption. If such an acquisition of the stock of Acuity Brands or of our stock triggers the application of Section 355(e), Acuity Brands would recognize taxable gain as described above, but the spin-off would generally remain tax-free to the Acuity Brands stockholders. If acquisitions of our stock trigger the application of Section 355(e), we would be obligated to indemnify Acuity Brands for the resulting corporate-level tax liability. This indemnification obligation would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and rights plan and the tax disaffiliation agreement may discourage takeovers. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may make more difficult or expensive or that may discourage a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • classify our board of directors into three groups, so that stockholders elect only one-third of the board each year; • permit stockholders to remove directors only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our voting shares; • permit a special stockholders’ meeting to be called only by a majority of the board of directors; • do not permit stockholders to take action except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders; • require stockholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting; • permit our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board may determine; • require the vote of the holders of at least 80% of our voting shares for stockholder amendments to our bylaws; and • require, for the approval of a business combination with stockholders owning 5% or more of our voting shares, the vote of at least 50% of our voting shares not owned by such stockholder, unless certain “fair price” requirements are met or the business combination is approved by our continuing directors. The preferred stock purchase rights attached to our shares of common stock, in effect, prevent a person or group from acquiring more than 15% of the total number of our common stock outstanding at any time after the spin-off without approval from our board of directors. In addition, Delaware law generally restricts mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock, unless the transaction or the 15% acquisition is approved in advance by our board of directors. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, and the preferred stock purchase rights could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even though a majority of our stockholders may consider such proposals, if effected, desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements replace the members of our board of directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market value of our common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts or speculation. If the spin-off is considered part of a “plan (or series of related transactions)” pursuant to which 50% or more of our stock is acquired, the spin-off will be taxable to Acuity Brands (but not to its stockholders) under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. For this purpose, any acquisitions of our stock that occur within two years after the spin-off (subject to certain exceptions including an exception for public trading) will be presumed to be part of such a plan, although Acuity Brands may be able to rebut that presumption. Under the tax disaffiliation agreement, we have agreed to indemnify Acuity Brands for any tax liability to Acuity Brands under Section 355(e) of the Code that results from acquisitions of our stock. This provision of the tax disaffiliation agreement may have the effect of discouraging or preventing an acquisition of our company or a disposition of our business. 