Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are important factors that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such factors could also cause our actual results for future periods to differ materially from our expectations, including those expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf. These risks could cause the market price of our securities to decrease. The risk factors described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section entitled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information." Risks Related to our Business We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. In connection with management's annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of and for the year ended August 31, 2014, we concluded a material weakness exists in the financial statement close process due to the lack of sufficient controls over management's review of account reconciliations and manual journal entries. Specifically, the account reconciliation review control is not being performed at the required precision to detect misstatements and therefore it is reasonably possible that an aggregation of undetected immaterial errors could result in a subsequent material misstatement. Under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. See "Item 9A. Controls and Procedures" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are in the process of remediating this material weakness, including enhancing our complement of resources with accounting and internal control knowledge through additional hiring and/or training to implement and perform additional controls over the preparation and review of manual journal entries and account reconciliations. We plan to develop formal policies and improved processes, including an approval control for manual journal entries, with the objective of preventing errors prior to posting to the general ledger. When fully implemented and operating effectively, such enhancements are expected to remediate the material weakness described above. The actions that we are taking are subject to ongoing senior management review, as well as Audit Committee oversight. However, we cannot determine how long it will take to remediate the weakness or provide any assurance that these remediation efforts will be successful or that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective as a result of these efforts. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. In addition, if we are unable to successfully remediate this material weakness and if we are unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements. 12 Table of Contents We are unable to produce aerosol products at our facility in Marietta, Georgia due to the occurrence of a fire at the facility. As a result of the fire, we have been unable to fulfill customer orders and may be unable to fulfill customer orders in the future which could result in temporary or permanent revenue loss, and we may incur substantial losses and liability to third parties, for which our insurance coverage may not provide adequate compensation. Our efforts to manage the aftermath of the fire are consuming a substantial amount of time and efforts of our organization. On May 23, 2014, a fire occurred at our Aerosol Facility located in Marietta, Georgia. The fire, the cause of which remains unknown, destroyed our chemical raw material warehouse and damaged other supporting infrastructure that contains or supports our production equipment. Some of the work in process, raw material and finished goods inventory located there was also destroyed or damaged. The products manufactured at the Aerosol Facility included cleaning and maintenance chemicals, lubricants and automotive brake cleaner and accounted for approximately 19% of our revenue for fiscal 2013. We have arranged for contract manufacturers, one of which was already producing certain aerosol products for us, to manufacture products formerly produced in the Aerosol Facility. We also resumed production at the Aerosol Facility on a limited basis in an attempt to mitigate revenue loss resulting from the fire. We are assisting our contract manufacturers in their efforts to satisfy requirements for our products by loaning them production equipment and assigning some of our associates to work with them, as needed. However, despite these efforts, the contract manufacturers are currently unable to manufacture some of our products in the quantity and in the formulations required to satisfy some customer requirements for the products. Furthermore, because some of the raw materials destroyed in the fire represented long-term supplies that would normally have not been replenished at the rate required after the fire, we experienced delays in obtaining supplies of some of the raw materials needed by the contract manufacturer to produce our products. These conditions could continue in the foreseeable future. Our inability to fulfill customer requirements has resulted in the loss of certain customers and will likely result in temporary or permanent loss of customers or market share for certain of our aerosol products, and, thus, may cause a loss of revenue, which may be material. The impact of lost sales related to the fire for fiscal 2014 was approximately $7.5 million with an estimated impact to profit before tax of $2.4 million. We expect that for at least the next few quarters our business will continue to be impacted by the inability to fully meet customer requirements. We expect that our business interruption insurance will cover these losses for a period of time that will be determined through discussion with our insurance companies. No insurance recoveries have been recorded to date related to lost sales. The timing of the receipt of insurance proceeds from losses relating to the fire may be materially different from when those losses are incurred versus when cash is spent. Any material loss of revenue resulting from the fire and its aftermath that is not covered by our insurance policy could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be liable to third parties as a result of damage to or destruction of their property or as a result of the release of hazardous substances into the environment during the fire. We may also be liable to regulatory authorities for potential violations of regulatory requirements and/or for damage to the environment caused by the release of hazardous substances during the fire. We cannot fully estimate the amount of such exposure at this time. We maintain $300 million in property damage and business interruption insurance coverage subject to various sublimits, including a $500,000 limit for land and water contaminant cleanup, removal and disposal on the property of third parties. We also maintain $75 million of general liability insurance coverage. Until we are able to fully replace the manufacturing capacity internally, we may incur higher operating costs by utilizing third party manufacturers to supply our production. Our insurance coverage may not fully compensate us for all of the losses we incur as a result of the fire, which in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the timing of our receipt of insurance proceeds from losses relating to the fire is controlled by our insurance carriers and release of proceeds may be materially different from when those losses are incurred or when cash is spent. 13 Table of Contents Responding to the fire and its aftermath is consuming a substantial amount of the time and efforts of our senior management team and other associates. As a result, while members of our senior management team and associates throughout the organization tend to fire-related matters, their ability to pursue other selected pre-existing initiatives to improve the efficiency of our operations and to achieve other strategic goals may be delayed. Likewise, the efforts of our supply-chain managers has been diverted to managing our contract manufacturers, to obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely fashion and to evaluating the possibility of utilizing other contract manufacturers to produce certain of our aerosol products. The diversion of the attention of our management team from other matters is expected to continue indefinitely. We currently are evaluating several possible courses of action regarding replacement of the previous production capacity at the Aerosol Facility. Our failure to select the best course of action, or our failure to implement that course of action properly, may result in a further interruption to our sales, manufacturing, logistics and customer service. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our aerosol contract manufacturers could experience business interruptions, which would impact their ability to fulfill our requirements. As part of our efforts to mitigate our revenue loss from the fire, we have arranged for contract manufacturers to produce a majority of our high demand products. Currently, one contract manufacturer is producing the majority of the outsourced aerosol products. If that contract manufacturer were to experience a business interruption, such as due to a natural disaster or industrial accident, for example, we would be unable to obtain these aerosol products until we were able to move the production to another location of that company or find another contract manufacturer to produce the products for us. The inability to obtain these aerosol products would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may not properly execute, or realize anticipated benefits from, our ongoing strategic or other initiatives. Our success is partly dependent upon properly executing, and realizing the anticipated benefits from, our ongoing strategic growth initiatives, our information technology initiatives, and other initiatives. These complex initiatives are primarily designed to increase our revenue and market share and to make us more efficient in the sales, manufacture, and distribution of our products. Our failure to implement any of the initiatives properly may, in addition to not providing the anticipated benefits, result in an interruption to our sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, or accounting functions. Furthermore, we have invested a significant amount of capital into a number of these initiatives and will invest a significant amount of capital into others, which might have been more efficiently used if the anticipated benefits are not fully realized. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including the requirement to reduce the book value of certain assets that must be evaluated for impairment. Difficult economic conditions could continue to adversely affect our business and financial results. Difficult economic conditions, in particular, downturns that affect the transportation, food processing, food service, manufacturing, government and housekeeping markets, in the U.S. and globally, have historically and may in the future negatively impact our business and financial results. The global and U.S. recessions that began in 2008 negatively impacted all of these markets. During periods of difficult economic conditions and uncertainty, we experience decreased demand for certain of our products as many customers either defer purchases or purchase lower-cost products. Currently, the European economy is experiencing recessionary conditions and the continuation or worsening of these conditions could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Credit quality also declines during periods of difficult economic conditions, which may negatively impact our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis, or at all, from certain customers. Furthermore, the ability of certain suppliers to fill our orders for raw materials or other goods and services may decline in the future because of the diminished availability of credit. A prolonged period of difficult economic 14 Table of Contents conditions, particularly one that affects the end-user markets listed above, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our results can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost or availability of materials used in our manufacturing processes. The key raw materials we use in our chemical products are surfactants, polymers and resins, fragrances, water, solvents and other petroleum-based materials, and packaging materials. Many of the raw materials that we use are petroleum-based and, therefore, are affected by the price of oil or its derivatives. Some of the raw materials we use are agricultural commodities and are subject to changes in availability and price. Furthermore, there are a limited number of suppliers for some of our raw materials. Competitive conditions, governmental restrictions, natural disasters and other events could limit the quantities of our raw materials that we are able to procure. As a result, the price and availability of the raw materials we use may fluctuate substantially. The fluctuations could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to increase the prices of our products to recover the increased cost of the raw materials we use. The volatility in raw material costs can exacerbate the challenges we face in obtaining sufficient pricing to maintain gross profit margins. Significant increases in the prices of products as a result of the increased cost of our raw materials could have a negative effect on demand for our products and on our operating margins. Furthermore, our ability to meet the demand for our products could be negatively impacted by shortages of our raw materials. We do not currently engage in raw material commodity hedging transactions. We are not always able to enter into a supply agreement for certain raw materials. When we are able to do so, we face the risk that the price of the raw material covered by the contract may decline during the term of the supply agreement. We face significant competition and may face more significant competition in the future. Our industry is highly competitive. Our competition includes numerous local and regional operators and several national competitors. Many of our competitors are privately-held companies that have lower cost structures than ours or that have lower financial-return requirements than we have. Furthermore, barriers to entry and expansion in the industry are low, which may lead to additional competitive pressure in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that changes in the source or the intensity of competitive pressure in the industry will not result in reduced market share that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to sustain our significant customer relationships. Our relationships with our largest customers depend on our ability to deliver high quality products and services. The loss or consolidation of, or substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by, one or more of our largest customers, including as a result of the fire at our Aerosol Facility, could harm our sales and profitability. We do not have contractual commitments with our largest customers to purchase our products, and they could sever their relationship with us with little or no notice. We have developed plans for reducing our cost structure if we were to lose one or more of our largest customers; however, we could not implement the actions contemplated by these plans immediately and we would incur substantial costs in doing so. Therefore, the loss of one or more of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to attract and retain sufficiently qualified sales representatives and other key personnel. Our success is dependent, in large part, upon the continued service of the sales representatives in our direct sales organization. Over the past three years, we have been focused on growth through acquisitions while 15 Table of Contents curtailing investments in our salesforce expansion and, as a result, we have fewer sales representatives in our direct sales organization. On October 1, 2014, we introduced a number of measures intended to improve the productivity of our North American Sales and Service direct sales force. However, we can provide no assurances that these measures will have the intended effect. Some of the measures, such as the cancellation of the exclusive-account agreements that we had with our most experienced North American direct sales representatives, may exacerbate the loss of these experienced sales representatives or may result in various claims against the Company. We are continuing to increase our efforts to expand our alternative sales channels, including inside sales, retail sales and wholesale distribution. Widespread sales of our products through our alternative sales channels could reduce the sales of our products by our North American direct sales representatives, which could lead to further losses of sales representatives and customers, as well as disputes over the terms of sales and commission agreements. Significant associate turnover and failure to maintain a qualified workforce, including qualified sales representatives, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations If we are unable to implement our acquisition growth strategy, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our strategy is to achieve profitable growth by, among other things, acquiring other product lines and businesses. Our ability to implement our growth strategy depends upon a variety of factors that are not within our control, including the availability of suitable and attractive product lines and businesses for acquisition and the availability of capital. We compete for acquisition opportunities with a diverse group of competitors, many of whom have significantly greater financial resources than we have. Therefore, we may be unable to complete an acquisition that we believe could be important to our growth strategy because one of our competitors may be willing to pay more for a potential acquisition candidate or may be able to use its financial resources to acquire a potential acquisition candidate before we are able to obtain financing. Our growth strategy may place additional demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources and may increase the demands on our financial systems and controls, particularly as we attempt to integrate acquired product lines and businesses into our existing operations. Our ability to manage our growth successfully may require us to continue to improve and expand these resources, systems and controls. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our growth, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our growth strategy requires that we make expenditures in connection with the acquisition of other product lines and companies. We cannot predict the amount of our expenditures in connection with our growth strategy because opportunities for implementing our growth strategy arise unexpectedly. We may be required to seek additional sources of financing as we pursue our growth strategy, which may include issuing debt or equity securities. Our need for additional financing may place us at a disadvantage in competing for acquisitions. When a future acquisition opportunity arises, we may be required to evaluate the sources of financing, which may be limited on short notice, and the terms of the financing available at the time. Certain sources of financing may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. If we cannot find financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to make the acquisition and we may incur significant costs from which we may realize no benefit. 16 Table of Contents We have substantial indebtedness which could impact our financial flexibility and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders, including in the following respects: As of August 31, 2014, we had net debt (total debt minus cash and cash equivalents) of $192.9 million. Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including in the following respects: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our operational and strategic needs; • placing us at a relative competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; • limiting our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in the businesses and industries in which we operate; and • increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions. In addition, since all of our debt is variable rate debt, a significant increase in interest rates would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and cash flow. Pursuant to our 2014 Credit Facility (as defined below), we are subject to certain financial and other restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and we may be exposed to substantial environmental, health, and safety costs and liabilities. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture, labeling, storage, distribution, sale and use of our products. Regulation of our products and operations continues to increase with more stringent standards, including evolving climate change standards, causing increased costs of operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs. In addition to existing laws, rules and regulations, new laws, rules and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are required to comply with certification, testing, labeling and transportation requirements associated with regulated chemicals. To date, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. However, the costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental and product liabilities associated with product usage, divested assets, third party locations, and past activities. We have accrued a liability for environmental remediation activities at certain of our facilities. The cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto), however, cannot be predicted with certainty. These liabilities may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions (including any such changes resulting from the fire at our Aerosol Facility), changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, our potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not previously been established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital and other ongoing expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the failure to comply with our obligations under the environmental laws and regulations could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, obligations to pay damages or other costs, and injunctions or other orders, including orders to cease operations. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at one or more of our properties could adversely 17 Table of Contents affect our ability to sell such property, receive full value for the property, use a property as collateral in a financing transaction, or obtain or maintain financing. See Note 4—Commitments and Contingencies in our accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding Environmental Matters. We use a variety of hazardous materials and chemicals in our manufacturing processes and in connection with maintenance work on our manufacturing facilities. Because of the nature of these substances, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims or removal or re-treatment of such substances. In addition, although we have developed environmental, health, and safety programs for our associates, including measures to protect our associates from exposure to hazardous substances, and conduct regular assessments at our facilities, we may be involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury as a result of occupational exposure to substances or other hazards at our current or former facilities. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such claims or lawsuits that may arise. If any such claims or lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, were resolved against us, our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage or increased organized labor activity. As of August 31, 2014, approximately 150 of our 2,300 associates were covered by collective bargaining agreements in the United States and Europe. While we consider our relations with our associates to be generally good, we may experience work stoppages, strikes, or slowdowns in the future. In addition, we outsource to third parties the manufacturing of certain of our products, including all of our aerosol products manufacturing as a result of the fire at the Aerosol Facility, and these third parties may experience work stoppages, strikes or slowdowns in the future. A prolonged work stoppage, strike, or slowdown at any of our facilities or those of our third party suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, upon expiration of any of our existing collective bargaining agreements, we may not be able to reach new agreements without union action or any new agreement may not be on terms satisfactory to us. Moreover, our non-union facilities may become subject to labor union organizing efforts. If any current non-union facilities were to unionize, we would incur increased risk of work stoppages and possibly higher labor costs. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete may be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our brand names. We own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights we use in connection with the packaging, marketing, and distribution of our major products both in the United States and in other countries where our products are principally sold. In addition, we possess trade secret product formulations and other product information, which are competitively sensitive. Intellectual property protection is important to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our intellectual property rights are substantial. We cannot be certain that we will be able to assert our intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our brand names in the marketplace. Any infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a diversion of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. Others may claim that our business or products infringe on their intellectual property rights. 18 Table of Contents Data security breaches and other disruptions could expose us to liability and data loss, which could negatively affect our results. As part of our business operations, we collect and store sensitive data on our computer networks, including our intellectual property, proprietary business information and that of our customers and vendors, as well as some personally identifiable information of our associates. Despite our security measures, our networks and systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to associate error, misconduct, viruses or other events. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, deleted or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our results. We have applied for cyber risk insurance, but, if obtained, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems. In addition, we market some of our brands, products and services via social media sites. These social media sites are hosted on the networks of others and may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to associate error or misconduct, putting our marketing strategies, reputation and results at risk. If our products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or become adulterated, we may need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if individuals are injured. Our quality control procedures relating to the raw materials and other supplies, including packaging and finished goods, which we receive from third party suppliers, or our quality control procedures relating to our products after our products are formulated and packaged, may not be sufficient. We have previously initiated product removals and recalls. Widespread product removals or recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a removal or recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We may also be liable if the use of any of our products causes injury, and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A significant product removal or recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of customer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. We may be required to record non-cash charges for impairment of our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits from the transactions that gave rise to the goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets were approximately $242.6 million as of August 31, 2014, or approximately 44% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $121.0 million as of August 31, 2014, or 22% of our total assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a non-cash charge to results of operations. In the event we are required to record impairment charges related to our intangible assets in the future, we may not realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other legal proceedings could adversely affect our sales and operating results. We are involved in litigation and other disputes, including in foreign jurisdictions. In general, claims made by or against us in litigation, disputes or other proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements, injunctions or damages that could significantly affect our 19 Table of Contents business or results of operations or financial condition. It is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation, disputes or proceedings with which we currently are or may in the future become involved. The impact of these matters on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be material. See Note 4—Commitments and Contingencies in our accompanying audited consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to these matters. Our continued growth through acquisitions or reliance on third party service providers could adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting, which could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Growth and expansion in domestic and global markets, including through acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic relationships, could place significant additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, we have in the past engaged, and may in the future engage, the services of third parties to assist with our business operations, which inserts additional monitoring obligations and risk into the system of internal control. In addition to other products, we currently contract manufacture our aerosol products through third parties as a result of the fire at our Aerosol Facility. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis or to detect and prevent fraud. A failure of key information technology systems could adversely impact our ability to conduct business. We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third party service providers, in order to conduct our business. These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to internal and external communications, ordering and managing materials from suppliers and vendors, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, administrative services, and other processes involved in managing our business. If our existing and/or future technology systems and processes do not adequately support the future growth of our business, our business could be materially adversely impacted. While we have business continuity plans in place, if the systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power outages or other similar events, and if the business continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in the ability to manage or conduct business, which may materially adversely impact our business. Furthermore, if we suffer a loss as a result of a breakdown in our technology system or other breakdown results in disclosure of confidential business information, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely affect our results of operations and/or financial condition. Risks Related to our Securities and Our Structure The market price for our common stock is volatile, and you may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of our common stock is volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. This volatility may occur for many reasons, including for reasons unrelated to our performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by our customers, competitors, or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as general economic and industry conditions and the trading volume of shares of our common stock. Additional 20 Table of Contents factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall include, but are not limited to, the following: • variations in our quarterly results; • industrial accidents such as the fire that occurred at our Aerosol Facility; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new products or services or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel or key groups of personnel; • the gain or loss of significant orders; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • the disruption of supply and/or price of key raw materials; • significant changes in regulatory requirements; • increased litigation resulting from product or associate claims; • adverse developments concerning environmental matters; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by the securities analysts that follow our stock; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole; and • the dilution of our earnings per share caused by our acquisition of another company or product line or because of our issuance of additional shares of our common stock or shares of a series of preferred stock or debt securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and rights plan may discourage takeovers. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may make more difficult or expensive or that may discourage a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our Board of Directors. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: • classify our Board of Directors into three groups, so that stockholders elect only one-third of the Board each year; • permit stockholders to remove directors only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our voting shares; • permit a special stockholders' meeting to be called only by a majority of the Board of Directors; • do not permit stockholders to take action except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders; • require stockholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to our Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders' meeting; • permit our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Board may determine; • require the vote of the holders of at least 80% of our voting shares for stockholder amendments to our by-laws; and 21 Table of Contents • require, for the approval of a business combination with stockholders owning 5% or more of our voting shares, the vote of at least 50% of our voting shares not owned by such stockholder, unless certain "fair price" requirements are met or the business combination is approved by our continuing directors. The preferred stock purchase rights attached to our shares of common stock, in effect, prevent a person or group from acquiring more than 15% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding at any time without obtaining prior approval from our Board of Directors, to be granted at the Board's sole discretion. In addition, Delaware law generally restricts mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock, unless the transaction or the 15% acquisition is approved in advance by our Board of Directors. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, and the preferred stock purchase rights could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, even though a majority of our stockholders may consider such proposals, if effected, desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of our Board of Directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market value of our common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts or speculation. Our by-laws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a judicial forum viewed by the stockholders as more favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or associates. Our by-laws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our by-laws; or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other associates, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other associates. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 