Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are important factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such factors could also cause our actual results for future periods to differ materially from our expectations, including those expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors could cause the market price of our securities to decrease. The risk factors described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional, risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section entitled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information". We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause results to differ from those expressed in or implied by other forward-looking statements made in oral presentations, including conference calls and/or webcasts open to the public. Except as may be required under applicable law, we undertake no responsibility to update our Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information. Risks Related to our Business We may not properly execute, or realize anticipated benefits from, our ongoing strategic or other initiatives. Our success is partly dependent upon properly executing, and realizing the anticipated benefits from, our ongoing strategic growth initiatives, our information technology initiatives, and other initiatives. These initiatives are primarily designed to increase our revenue and market share and to make us more efficient in the sales, manufacture, and distribution of our products. We continue our phased implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system ("ERP"), the next significant phase of which involves inventory, billing, and warehouse management and is scheduled for "go-live" during fiscal year 2013. The implementation is a technically intensive process, requiring design, programming, testing, modifications and project coordination. Although our ERP implementation process includes months of planning and training, which is intended to minimize business disruption and conversion risks, we may experience disruptions in our business operations related to this implementation effort. Such disruptions could result in material adverse consequences, including costs associated with delays in the design and implementation of the system, loss of information, loss of personnel, a reduction in our ability to process transactions, harm to our control environment, and unanticipated increases in operating costs and losses of customers and associated revenues. These initiatives, including the implementation of the ERP system, are complex; a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not providing the anticipated benefits, result in an interruption to our sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, or accounting functions. Furthermore, we have invested a significant amount of capital into a number of these initiatives and will invest a significant amount of capital into others, which might have been more efficiently used if the anticipated benefits are not fully realized. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including the requirement to reduce the book value of certain assets that must be evaluated for impairment. Difficult economic conditions could continue to affect adversely our business and financial results. Difficult economic conditions, in the U.S. or globally, and in particular, downturns that affect the transportation, food processing, food service, manufacturing, government and housekeeping markets, may negatively impact our business and financial results. The recent global and U.S. recessions, many aspects of which are continuing, such as high unemployment, negatively impact all of these markets. During periods of difficult economic conditions and uncertainty, we experience decreased demand for our products as many customers either defer purchases or purchase lower-cost products. Credit quality has frequently experienced declines during periods of difficult economic conditions, which may negatively impact our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis, or at all, from certain 13 Table of Contents customers. Furthermore, the ability of certain suppliers to fill our orders for raw materials or other goods and services may decline in the future because of the diminished availability of credit. A prolonged period of difficult economic conditions, particularly one that affects the end-user markets listed above, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our results can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost or availability of materials used in our manufacturing processes. The key raw materials we use in our chemical products are surfactants, polymers and resins, fragrances, water, solvents and other petroleum-based materials and packaging materials. Many of the raw materials that we use are energy dependent and, therefore, are subject to the availability and price of energy related inputs such as oil and natural gas. Some of the raw materials we use are agriculture-based commodities and are subject to changes in availability and price. Furthermore, there are a limited number of suppliers for some of our raw materials. Competitive conditions, governmental restrictions, natural disasters and other events could limit the quantities of our raw materials that we are able to purchase. As a result, the price and availability of the raw materials we use may fluctuate substantially. For example, during fiscal year 2011 and 2012, we experienced difficulty obtaining pyrethrum, a key component of our agricultural pest control products, due to an industry-wide shortage. As another example, the cost of ethanol, which is used in some of our products and which is increasing in importance as a transportation fuel, became volatile during 2012 due to insufficient rainfall throughout much of the mid-western United States coupled with an increase in demand for corn-based derivatives. We may not be able to increase the prices of our products to recover the increased cost of the raw materials we use. The volatility in raw material costs can exacerbate the challenges we face with obtaining sufficient pricing to maintain gross profit margins. Significant increases in the prices of our raw materials could have a negative effect on demand for our products and on our operating margins. Furthermore, our ability to meet the demand for our products could be negatively impacted by shortages of our raw materials. We do not currently engage in raw material commodity hedging transactions. We are not always able to enter into a supply agreement for certain raw materials. When we are able to do so, we face the risk that the price of the raw material covered by the contract may decline during the term of the supply agreement. We face significant competition and may face more significant competition in the future. Our industry is highly competitive. Our competition includes numerous local and regional operators selling directly to customers, numerous distributors and several national competitors. Many of our competitors are privately-held companies that have cost structures that are lower than ours or that have lower financial-return requirements than we have. Competition is based primarily on brand name recognition, price, product quality, and customer service. Furthermore, barriers to entry and expansion in the industry are low, which may lead to additional competitive pressure in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that change in the source or intensity of competitive pressure in the industry will not result in reduced market share that could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flow. We may be unable to sustain our significant customer relationships. Our relationships with our largest customers depend on our ability to deliver high quality products and services. The loss of or substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by one or more of our largest customers could harm our sales and profitability. The Home Depot is our largest single customer. It represented less than 10% of our total sales in fiscal year 2012 and approximately 10% of our total net 14 Table of Contents sales during each of the fiscal years ended August 31, 2011, and 2010. Our relationship with The Home Depot is not subject to any written contract obligating them to purchase our products, and they could sever their relationship with us upon little or no notice. We have developed plans for reducing our cost structure if we were to lose one or more of our largest customers; however, we could not implement the actions contemplated by these plans immediately and we would incur substantial costs in doing so. Therefore, the loss of The Home Depot as a customer, or a combination of other large customers, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to attract and retain sufficiently qualified sales representatives and other key personnel. Our success is dependent upon the continued service of our highly skilled workforce and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The challenge to attract top talent is a formidable one given the competition for such talent within our markets. In particular, we have historically experienced substantial turnover in sales representatives, especially those who have less than two years experience. This turnover in our sales force on a monthly basis increases our hiring and training expenses and can interrupt continuity with some of our customers. In addition, we are continuing to expand our sales efforts into alternative sales channels, including wholesale distribution utilizing several brands including our Zep Professional product line. Widespread sales of our products through wholesale distribution could reduce the sales of our products by sales representatives in certain regions, which could lead to the loss of sales representatives and customers, as well as disputes over the terms of sales and commission agreements. Significant employee turnover and failure to maintain a qualified workforce, including qualified sales representatives, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations If we are unable to implement our growth strategy, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our strategy is to achieve profitable growth by, among other things, acquiring other product lines and businesses. Our ability to implement our growth strategy depends upon a variety of factors that are not within our control, including: •our ability to make profitable acquisitions; •our ability to integrate acquired companies and facilities into our existing operations; and •the availability of capital. We compete for acquisition opportunities with companies that have significantly greater financial resources than we have. Therefore, we may be unable to complete an acquisition that we believe could be important to our growth strategy because one of our competitors may be willing to pay more for a potential acquisition candidate or may be able to use its financial resources to acquire a potential acquisition candidate before we are able to obtain financing. The implementation of our growth strategy may place additional demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources and may increase the demands on our financial systems and controls. Our ability to manage our growth successfully may require us to continue to improve and expand these resources, systems and controls. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our growth, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our growth strategy requires that we make expenditures in connection with the acquisition of other product lines and companies. We cannot predict the amount of our expenditures in connection with our growth strategy because opportunities for implementing our growth strategy arise unexpectedly. We will be required to seek additional sources of financing as we pursue our growth strategy, which may include issuing debt or equity securities. Our need for additional financing may place us at a disadvantage in competing for acquisitions. When a future acquisition opportunity arises, we will be 15 Table of Contents required to evaluate the sources of financing, which may be limited on short notice, and the terms of the financing available at the time. Certain sources of financing may have a dilutive effect on stockholders' existing equity positions. If we cannot find financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to make the acquisition and we may incur significant costs from which we may realize no benefit. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and we may be exposed to substantial environmental, health, and safety costs and liabilities. As noted above, our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and use of our products. Regulation of our products and operations continues to increase with more stringent standards, including evolving climate change standards, causing increased costs of operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs. Notably, the Toxic Substances Control Act gives the EPA the authority to track, test and/or ban chemicals that may pose an environmental or human-health hazard. We are required to comply with certification, testing, labeling and transportation requirements associated with regulated chemicals. To date, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. However, the costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental and product liabilities associated with product usage, divested assets, third party locations, and past activities. We have accrued a liability for environmental remediation activities where appropriate. The cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto), however, cannot be predicted with certainty. These liabilities may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions, changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, our potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not previously been established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital and other ongoing expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the failure to comply with our obligations under the environmental laws and regulations could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, obligations to pay damages or other costs, and injunctions or other orders, including orders to cease operations. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at one or more of our properties could adversely affect our ability to sell such property, receive full value for the property, use a property as collateral in a financing transaction, or obtain or maintain financing. We are currently a party to federal and state administrative proceedings arising under federal and state laws enacted for the protection of the environment where a state or federal agency or a private party alleges that hazardous substances generated by us have been discharged into the environment and a state or federal agency is requiring a cleanup of soil and/or groundwater pursuant to federal or state superfund laws. In each of these proceedings in which we have been named as a party that allegedly generated hazardous substances that were transported to a waste site owned and operated by another party, either (1) we are one of many other identified generators who have reached an agreement on the allocation of costs for cleanup among the various generators and our potential liability is not material; (2) we have been identified as a potential generator and the sites have been remediated by the EPA or by a state for a cost that is not material; or (3) other generators have cleaned up the site and have not pursued a claim against us and our liability, if any, would not be material. 16 Table of Contents We own and operate property located on Seaboard Industrial Boulevard in Atlanta, Georgia where we have been named as a responsible party. We and the current and former owners of adjoining properties have agreed to share the expected costs and responsibilities for remediating the issue. Further, we have executed a Consent Order with the Georgia Environmental Protection Division ("EPD") covering this remediation, and are operating under an EPD approved Corrective Action Plan, which may be amended from time to time based on the progression of our remediation. In May 2007, we accrued an undiscounted pre-tax liability of $5.0 million representing our best estimate at the time of costs associated with subsurface remediation, primarily to remove, or secure, contaminants from soil underlying this property, and other related environmental issues. While it is reasonably possible that the total losses incurred by us in connection with this matter could range up to $10.0 million, management's best estimate of total remediation costs continues to be $5.0 million. To date, we have expended approximately $2.5 million of the $5.0 million accrual we established in May 2007. Further sampling, engineering studies, and/or changes in regulatory requirements could cause us to revise the current estimate. We arrived at the current estimates based on studies prepared by independent third party environmental consulting firms. The actual cost of remediation will vary depending upon the results of additional testing and geological studies, the success of initial remediation efforts addressing the most significant areas of contamination, the rate at which site conditions may change, and the requirements of the EPD. Amrep is currently a party to federal and state administrative proceedings arising under federal and state laws enacted for the protection of the environment where a state or federal agency or a private party alleges that hazardous substances generated by Amrep have been discharged into the environment and a state or federal agency is requiring a cleanup of soil and/or groundwater pursuant to federal or state superfund laws. In each of these proceedings in which Amrep has been named as a party that allegedly generated hazardous substances that were transported to a waste site owned and operated by another party, either (1) Amrep is one of many other identified generators who have reached an agreement on the allocation of costs for cleanup among the various generators and Amrep's potential liability is not material, or (2) Amrep has been identified as a potential generator but has been indemnified by its waste broker and transporter. Amrep's primary manufacturing location in Marietta, Georgia is the only active site involving property which Amrep owns with respect to which Amrep has been named as a potentially responsible party. With regard to this location, Amrep is responsible for the expected costs of implementing an Amended Corrective Action Plan that was conditionally approved by the EPD in June 2012 under the Georgia Hazardous Response Act. The State of Georgia recently introduced a Voluntary Remediation Program ("VRP") that provides for a risk-based approach towards environmental remediation. We believe the provisions of the VRP are applicable to the Marietta site. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, with the assistance of our third party environmental and geological specialists, we evaluated costs necessary to complete the Marietta site remediation in accordance with VRP and other applicable regulatory standards. As a result of the evaluation, we decreased our Marietta remediation accrual. As of August 31, 2012, liabilities related to the remediation of the Marietta site presented within our Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect an undiscounted, pre-tax liability of approximately $7.8 million, which represents our best estimate of remaining remediation costs for this site. In the future, we will submit an application to enter the Marietta, Georgia site into the VRP. Additionally, Amrep previously conducted manufacturing operations at an unrelated property in Cartersville, Georgia that has since been sold and where sub-surface contamination exists. Pursuant to the terms of the sale, Amrep has retained environmental exposure that might arise from its previous use of this property. Management is preparing a plan to address sub-surface contamination at this location. Based on recent data, the contamination has migrated off site and is present at a greater depth than originally anticipated. In the future, we will submit an application to enter the Cartersville, Georgia site into the VRP. Our third party environmental and geological specialists evaluated the remaining 17 Table of Contents remediation cost of this site during the third quarter of fiscal year 2012. As a result of the evaluation, we increased the related accrual to approximately $0.6 million. In fiscal year 2012, the net reduction in environmental remediation liabilities resulting from these fiscal year 2012 evaluations totaled $1.3 million, which we recorded in Selling, Distribution, and Administrative Expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The actual cost of remediation of these two sites in Georgia could vary depending upon the results of additional testing and geological studies, the rate at which site conditions may change, the success of initial remediation designed to address the most significant areas of contamination, and changes in regulatory requirements. While it is reasonably possible that the total costs incurred by us in connection with these matters could range up to an aggregate of $16.0 million, management's best estimate of total remediation costs for these two sites combined is $8.4 million. Finally, we submitted a comprehensive Affected Property Assessment Report ("APAR") to address the sub-surface contamination at a Texas manufacturing location owned by Amrep. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality ("TCEQ") formally approved the APAR but requested that additional actions be taken including formal closure of previously registered waste management units. On August 22, 2012, we received a letter from the TCEQ approving the closure of the waste management units and confirming no further action was required at the site. We use a variety of hazardous materials and chemicals in our manufacturing processes and in connection with maintenance work on our manufacturing facilities. Because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims or removal or re-treatment of such substances. In addition, although we have developed environmental, health, and safety programs for our employees, including measures to protect our employees from exposure to hazardous substances, and conduct regular assessments at our facilities, we may be involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury as a result of occupational exposure to substances or other hazards at our current or former facilities. Due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such claims or lawsuits that may arise. If any such claims or lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, were resolved against us, our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage or increased organized labor activity. As of August 31, 2012, approximately 230 of our 2,400 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements in the United States and Europe. While we consider our relations with our employees to be generally good, we may experience work stoppages, strikes, or slowdowns in the future. In addition, we outsource to third parties the manufacturing of certain of our products that currently account for approximately 20% to 25% of our net sales volumes, and these third parties may experience work stoppages, strikes or slowdowns in the future. A prolonged work stoppage, strike, or slowdown at any of our facilities or those of our third party suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, upon expiration of any of our existing collective bargaining agreements, we may not be able to reach new agreements without union action or any new agreement may not be on terms satisfactory to us. Moreover, our non-union facilities may become subject to labor union organizing efforts. If any current non-union facilities were to unionize, we would incur increased risk of work stoppages and possibly higher labor costs. We do not have a back-up manufacturing facility for the production of our aerosol products. Currently, the only location where we manufacture our aerosol products is our facility in Marietta, Georgia. We decided to locate all aerosol-product production at this facility to achieve economies of scale. The facility now produces the aerosol products marketed by Zep and Amrep as well as the aerosol products that we acquired as part of our acquisition of assets from Waterbury Companies in 2010. If we were unable to continue to operate this facility, due to a natural disaster or industrial accident, for example, we would be unable to produce our aerosol products until operations at the plant were restored or we were able to find a contract manufacturer to produce the products for us. The inability to manufacture our aerosol products would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete may be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our brand names. We own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights we use in connection with the packaging, marketing, and distribution of our major products both in the United States and in other countries where our products are principally sold. In addition, we possess trade secret product formulations and other product information, some of which are patented, which are competitively sensitive. Intellectual property protection is important to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our intellectual property rights may be substantial. We cannot be certain that we will be able to assert our intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our brand names in the marketplace. Any infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a diversion of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. Others may claim that our business or products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Recent California legislation, called the "Green Chemistry Initiative", regulates products that contain chemicals deemed to exhibit a "hazard trait" such as carcinogenicity, toxicity or mutagenicity. Similar legislation is underway in other states, including New York. As a result of this type of legislation, we may be required to disclose certain of our proprietary product formulations, the identity of the chemicals used in certain of our products and chemical and market data with respect to certain of our products to the California Department of Toxic Substance Control (the "DTSC") or other state agencies. We intend to request protective treatment for any proprietary confidential business information that we may be required to disclose. However, we may be unable to retain trade-secret protection for our formulations. Loss of trade-secret protection for a product formulation could enable our competitors to duplicate the product. Our failure to protect our trademarks and trade names, or any adverse judgment with respect to infringement of others' intellectual property rights, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. If our products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or become adulterated, we may need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured. If we improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled our products or if they become adulterated, we may be required to remove or recall the affected products. Our quality control procedures relating to the raw materials and other supplies, including packaging, that we receive from third-party suppliers, or our quality control procedures relating to our products after our products are formulated and packaged may not be sufficient. We have previously initiated product removals and recalls, and widespread product removals or recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a removal or recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We may also be liable if the use of any of our products causes injury, and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A significant product removal or recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 19 Table of Contents We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. We may be required to record non-cash charges for impairment of our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits from the transactions that gave rise to the goodwill and other intangible assets. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. Our goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets were approximately $150.3 million as of August 31, 2012, or approximately 34.5% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $84.6 million as of August 31, 2012, or 19.4% of our total assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and, in accordance with relevant guidance, will be reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. Some of the products and services we sell to our customers are dependent upon laws and regulations, and changes to such laws or regulations could impact the demand for our products and services. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a non-cash charge to results of operations. In the event we are required to record impairment charges related to our intangible assets in the future, we may not realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Securities and Our Structure The market price for our Securities, including our common stock, may be volatile, and you may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of our common stock has in the recent past been, and may in the future be, highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations and the market price of any other securities we issue from time to time may also be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. This volatility may occur for many reasons, including for reasons unrelated to our performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by our customers, competitors, or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as general economic and industry conditions and the lack of a readily liquid market for our securities. Additional factors that could cause the market price of our securities, including our common stock, to rise and fall include, but are not limited to, the following: •variations in our quarterly results; •announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; •introductions of new products or services or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; •acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; •recruitment or departure of key personnel or key groups of personnel; •the gain or loss of significant orders; •the gain or loss of significant customers; •the disruption of supply and/or price of key raw materials; •significant changes in regulatory requirements; 20 Table of Contents •increased litigation resulting from product or employee claims; •adverse developments concerning environmental matters; •changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our stock; •market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole; and •the dilution of our earnings per share caused by our acquisition of another company or product line or because of our issuance of additional shares of our common stock or shares of a series of preferred stock or debt securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and rights plan may discourage takeovers. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may make more difficult or expensive or that may discourage a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our Board of Directors. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: •classify our Board of Directors into three groups, so that stockholders elect only one-third of the Board each year; •permit stockholders to remove directors only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our voting shares; •permit a special stockholders' meeting to be called only by a majority of the Board of Directors; •do not permit stockholders to take action except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders; •require stockholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to our Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders' meeting; •permit our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Board may determine; •require the vote of the holders of at least 80% of our voting shares for stockholder amendments to our bylaws; and •require, for the approval of a business combination with stockholders owning 5% or more of our voting shares, the vote of at least 50% of our voting shares not owned by such stockholder, unless certain "fair price" requirements are met or the business combination is approved by our continuing directors. The preferred stock purchase rights attached to our shares of common stock, in effect, prevent a person or group from acquiring more than 15% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding at any time without obtaining prior approval from our Board of Directors, to be granted at the Board's sole discretion. In addition, Delaware law generally restricts mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock, unless the transaction or the 15% acquisition is approved in advance by our Board of Directors. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, and the preferred stock purchase rights could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, even though a majority of our stockholders may consider such proposals, if effected, desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of our Board of Directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices 21 Table of Contents above the then-current market value of our common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts or speculation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 