1A. Risk Factors,” and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are the leading global provider of utility storage solutions for mid-sized to large enterprises, financial services firms, cloud computing service providers, consumer-oriented Internet/Web 2.0 companies, and government entities. Utility storage is a category of data storage systems built for utility computing and the virtual datacenter and is a segment of the larger global market for Fibre Channel and iSCSI open storage area networks where we compete with larger and more established companies. Utility computing is an emerging information technology, or IT, architecture that allows organizations to create cost-effective virtualized IT infrastructures for flexible workload consolidation by using server virtualization technologies, utility storage systems, and blade servers, which are high-density, self-contained computer servers designed to optimize and minimize physical space. Storage virtualization is an abstraction of storage resources that presents a logical view of storage resources that is independent from actual underlying physical storage assets. Such a presentation of storage resources enables the pooling of available storage assets, improving the efficiency and availability of storage resources. Utility computing is designed to enable organizations to deliver services more rapidly, flexibly, reliably, and economically than they would otherwise be able to deliver through traditional approaches such as mainframe and distributed computing models. Utility computing also enables new service delivery models that allow IT organizations to deliver software and hardware as a service both internally and as part of a cloud computing deployment. IT organizations, such as datacenters, are increasingly adopting storage virtualization, including highly virtualized utility storage, to improve storage resource utilization and reduce the amount of energy required to power and cool them. We help organizations build storage infrastructures to meet performance and high availability demands. Our storage systems are designed to be self-managing, or smart, capacity efficient, or thin, and resiliently adaptable, or ready. We believe our storage systems provide substantial benefits for our customers, including reducing administrative costs and provisioning complexity, improving server and storage utilization, easing power and cooling requirements, scaling efficiently to support continuous growth, and adapting rapidly to meet changing business needs. Headquartered in Fremont, California, we began operations in May 1999 and started commercial shipments of our products in March 2002. 3 Table of Contents Our Strategy Management and protection of data across an enterprise is increasingly viewed by organizations as a mission-critical task. However, as modern workloads have become increasingly complex for organizations to manage, we believe enterprises have struggled with limitations in traditional storage systems, which were generally not designed to address current data management issues, such as rapid rates of data growth, the need for quick deployment of new applications, the need for regulatory data retention, and the desire to align data storage costs with business growth. As a result, we believe organizations commonly encounter significant and increasing challenges with respect to their storage infrastructure, including those associated with suboptimal utilization of storage resources, excessive power consumption, implementation complexity, and the increasing demand for IT agility and responsiveness to address changing business requirements. Our mission is to provide storage solutions that are simple and efficient. Our storage solutions are designed to be easy to manage, or simple, and more cost- and energy-efficient, or efficient, than traditional storage systems. Key elements of our strategy include: • Addressing the Need for Utility and Cloud Computing. We define cloud computing as the delivery of services over the Internet on a variable cost basis, such as a subscription. We believe that utility computing architectures based on highly virtualized server and storage technologies are one of the best ways of delivering cloud computing services. We see two different models for building utility computing infrastructures to support cloud computing: “public” and “private” cloud models. We believe the public cloud model is appropriate for service providers that sell IT services and/or Hardware- and Software-as-a-Service, or HaaS/SaaS, over the Internet to end user customers. This includes hosting providers, managed service providers, or MSPs, HaaS/SaaS providers, and Web 2.0 companies. We believe the private cloud model, also known as the virtual datacenter, is appropriate for mid-sized to large enterprises and financial services firms that want to build a private, in-house infrastructure to securely deliver services over their internal network to an internal user base. With both approaches, utility computing is the underlying architecture that brings virtualization, automation, and clustering technologies together to create shared IT infrastructures for flexible workload consolidation. Our utility storage systems are designed to enable customers to build highly virtualized infrastructures to support services delivery through both public and private cloud models while lowering the total lifetime cost of ownership for their data storage. Continuing to address this need is an important part of our operational strategy. We believe that the market for utility and cloud computing is in the early stages. We intend to make a concerted effort to increase market awareness of the benefits of cloud computing by targeting organizations that can benefit from virtual datacenters built for external services delivery and for the delivery of enterprise IT as a utility service within the organization. We believe that our utility storage products enhance service delivery and storage economics by offering higher performance and by increasing the efficiency of virtualized server deployments at a lower total cost of ownership than traditional storage systems. • Helping Customers “Do More with Less.” We believe our highly virtualized, utility-based approach to storage has been shown to help our customers reduce the overall capital expenditure associated with their storage capacity and infrastructure purchases and the operating expenditure associated with ongoing administration and maintenance of their storage infrastructure. In other words, our storage systems are designed to enable customers to “do more with less”—fewer dollars, fewer systems, less storage capacity, less infrastructure, less energy, and less administration time. We believe that our emphasis on doing more with less is particularly important in the context of the current economic downturn and we intend to continue to make it a key element of our strategy in the future. • Maintaining and Extending Our Technology Leadership in Utility Storage. Since our inception in 1999, we have striven to achieve a technology leadership position in the storage industry. We designed our utility storage systems from the ground up to meet the specific needs of the virtual datacenter and we 4 Table of Contents created the category of storage known as utility storage. We are also regarded as a pioneer of thin provisioning, a now-popular storage virtualization technology design that virtualizes storage capacity independent from physical storage capacity, thus reducing up-front and ongoing storage capacity purchases and easing storage administration for organizations. Our technological innovation includes system design and architecture, hardware design, and software development. As a leader and pioneer in storage virtualization technologies, we intend to maintain and extend our technology leadership position by continuing to invest heavily in our research and development efforts. • Building Substantial Repeat Business with Existing Customers. We intend, based on our customers’ experience of the performance and cost benefits of our storage systems, to target our customers for substantial repeat business by selling additional products to meet our customers’ needs as their businesses grow and their data requirements increase. We will attempt to further penetrate our existing customer base by delivering broad and interoperable storage systems suitable for a wide variety of deployments with a focus on achieving high levels of customer satisfaction. • Expanding Our Customer Base through Direct Customer Relationships in Core Markets. In our core markets, we are focused on developing relationships directly with large aggregators of storage demand through our direct sales force and customer service personnel. Because of the importance of the data that our customers are entrusting to our products, we believe it is important to maintain a direct relationship with them. We have direct sales personnel located in the United States, the United Kingdom (UK), Germany, Japan, and Canada and direct customer service personnel in the United States, Germany, Switzerland, Singapore, Japan and the UK. During fiscal 2009, we added to our direct UK sales force and expanded our UK sales office. We also enhanced our direct support presence with the addition of customer services specialists based in the UK to serve the UK and Germany. We believe that maintaining and expanding our physical presence in local markets has been and will continue to be essential to maintaining good relationships with our customers in these markets. We also believe that communication among our customers is both rapid and frequent and our sales process is highly dependent on strong word-of-mouth recommendations among our customers. Consequently, we intend to continue investing in the expansion of our direct sales force and customer service organization, both in the United States and internationally, in order to maintain our customer relationships and continue earning strong recommendations from them. • Expanding Our Alliances and Our Network of Channel Partners, Resellers, and Authorized Service Providers to Support Growing Customer Base. We have developed alliances with a variety of companies that provide servers and server virtualization and network infrastructure components. We intend to continue developing our alliances to provide our customers with the ability to more easily integrate our utility storage products within their IT infrastructures. We have also developed a global network of channel partners, resellers, and authorized service providers to sell, support, and service our products in markets in which we do not have a direct physical presence. We intend to continue to expand our network of channel partners, resellers, and authorized service providers to maintain and improve the quality and responsiveness of the sales and support services that our customers require in those markets. Our Customers Organizations that generate and retain large amounts of data use enterprise-level storage systems such as ours for storing, protecting, and recovering electronic information in the form of digital data. Efficient and accurate access to data can be critical to the success of an organization and can be a key competitive differentiator. Our target customers are primarily organizations for whom serving information is mission-critical, including external service providers (for example, MSPs and HaaS/SaaS providers) and internal service bureaus (for example, IT organizations within enterprises and government agencies). Both groups benefit from delivering solutions based on a utility service model that leverages a low-cost, shared, virtualized infrastructure for 5 Table of Contents workload consolidation and flexible resource allocation. As of March 31, 2009, we have sold over 1,200 utility storage systems to more than 500 mid-sized to large enterprises, financial services firms, cloud computing service providers, consumer-oriented Internet/Web 2.0 companies, and government entities worldwide. • Mid-Sized to Large Enterprises. Across the spectrum of mid-sized to large enterprises, there are IT organizations that have transformed—or are in the process of transforming themselves—into internal service bureaus that leverage shared, virtualized infrastructures for workload consolidation and flexible resource allocation. Many of these companies are building in-house virtual datacenters to enable internal services delivery according to a private cloud model. This customer category includes companies such as Symantec Corporation, Carphone Warehouse, and Fresenius Medical Care. • Financial Services Firms. Our financial services firm customer category includes investment banks, exchanges and hedge funds that depend on the high performance and high availability of 3PAR InServ storage servers to run their heavy transactional operations. This customer segment also includes commercial banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that are transforming their datacenters into internal service bureaus. Theses customers include Credit Suisse, Nordea Bank and TransUnion. • Cloud Computing Service Providers. Our cloud computing service provider customer category includes companies with a business-to-business focus, including infrastructure and application hosting providers, MSPs, HaaS/SaaS providers, and business transaction and business information service providers. These customers include SAVVIS, Omniture and USi, an AT&T company. • Consumer-Oriented Internet/Web 2.0 Companies. Our consumer-oriented Internet/Web 2.0 customer category includes companies with a business-to-consumer focus. These include Web 2.0, social networking companies, and other primarily Internet-based businesses serving the needs of a large number of consumers, many using a cloud computing delivery model in doing so. These customers include MySpace.com, IAC /Ask.com and Careerbuilder.com. • Government Entities. Our government end-customers include the United States Department of Justice, the United States Census Bureau and Department of Defense. Orders placed with our resellers by government end customers may generally be terminated unilaterally by the government end-customer or may be subject to additional conditions not typically found in our other end customer contracts. During fiscal 2009 and 2008, approximately 8% and 9% of our revenue resulted from sales by our resellers to government end customers, respectively. While in fiscal 2009 and 2008, no customer represented 10% or more of our total revenue, in the first quarter and fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and the first quarter of fiscal 2008, 20%, 12%, and 25% of our revenue, respectively, was attributable to sales to single customers in each of those periods. We do not have agreements in place with these customers, or any other customer, that obligate such customers to long-term purchase or repeat order requirements. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In fiscal 2009, we derived 16% of our revenue from shipments to customer locations outside the United States. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of revenue by geographic area. Our Technology and Products We designed our utility storage platform to address the limitations of traditional storage arrays by delivering a smart, thin, and ready storage solution to enhance the performance and economics of the virtual datacenter. We believe we are the first provider of storage systems designed specifically to meet the needs of utility and cloud computing and the virtual datacenter. Our work with thin provisioning and thin technologies has significantly advanced our mission of providing simple and efficient storage solutions, as those technologies have been shown to improve resource utilization and reduce capacity requirements, energy consumption, administration time, and provisioning complexity. Additionally, our proprietary storage system architecture is designed to enable 6 Table of Contents non-disruptive and massive scalability within a single, tiered storage system over time. The purpose of this design is to allow customers to scale their storage systems efficiently and cost-effectively to support continuous or rapid growth while also adapting quickly to the changing business needs that they face. Our technology and products are defined by the following principles: • Smart. Our systems are designed to be self-managing. They also offer rapid and self-executing, or autonomic provisioning of storage volumes of varied service levels and sizes without pre-planning and in just a few seconds as compared to minutes, hours, or days with legacy systems. Our software autonomically load-balances data on physical disks to optimize application performance on an ongoing basis. This software is designed to reduce training requirements and simplify cross-platform interoperability for remote backup and replication. • Thin. Our systems are designed to allow customers to significantly improve utilization of physical resources by minimizing the use of pre-allocated, unused storage capacity that is a common problem with legacy storage provisioning methodologies employed by traditional storage systems. Our thin provisioning software lets an application consume only the storage it actually needs, only as it actually requires that capacity for written data. This “dedicate-on-write” approach differs from the traditional “dedicate-on-allocation” approach employed by legacy storage systems, which require capacity to be allocated up-front. Because our systems allow storage to be consumed only as it is actually used, a greater percentage of the overall system capacity can be used, which increases capacity utilization rates and reduces the amount of physical storage that customers must purchase, house, administer, power, and cool. • Ready. Our systems are designed to offer a low initial cost of ownership and then scale non-disruptively as customer needs grow over time. Our storage arrays can support up to 600 terabytes of storage in a single, consolidated, highly scalable system. This storage capacity can be mixed between various types of disk drives in order to meet the differing performance and budgetary needs of a variety of applications all from a single storage system. Our systems also allow both Fibre Channel and iSCSI host connectivity concurrently, which permits the consolidation of a wide variety of applications and servers to streamline datacenter infrastructure and reduce facilities, administration, and other operating costs. Through our alliances with network attached storage (NAS) gateway vendors, we offer open, unified storage solutions for overall storage consolidation. Capacity can be purchased incrementally or on an as-needed basis, enabling customers to pay only for what they need, when they need it. Our clustered controller architecture also allows our utility storage solutions to be configured to target demands for high availability. This architecture has been designed to tolerate component failures in hardware, including individual controller nodes, without servers losing access to storage volumes. We offer sophisticated remote replication software to protect customers from single-system and site failures over both short and long geographic distances. Flexible copy-on-write snapshot technology—which captures only changes in written data—integrates with leading databases and backup software to allow rapid application recovery. This combination of features is designed to allow customers to maintain data availability, minimize the impact of component failures, and allow faster recovery if application failures require rapid retrieval of previous copies of data. Utility Storage Platform Our utility storage platform features a uniquely architected, integrated hardware system that includes a proprietary operating system and a range of available software applications. The 3PAR Utility Storage platform is designed to save our customers money in the following ways: • By improving our customers’ resource utilization and reducing the amount of physical storage capacity they require, allowing them to purchase fewer storage arrays. 7 Table of Contents • By reducing the energy and floor space required by customers to power, cool, and house their storage. • By reducing the amount of time and resources customers are required to dedicate to the implementation and ongoing management of their storage. InServ Storage Servers We believe our 3PAR InServ® Storage Servers help customers build a data storage infrastructure with the ability to quickly meet their changing business needs at a lower total cost than that often associated with traditional storage. We designed our family of InServ Storage Servers to deliver high levels of performance and consolidation simply and affordably, enabling our customers to avoid the need to overprovision capacity or resort to complex administration to increase resource performance and utilization. We believe our InServ Storage Servers enable customers to consolidate data from multiple applications and user groups having varying service level and performance requirements onto a single storage array. Through consolidation, user groups and applications are able to achieve greater storage service levels, in terms of performance, availability, and functionality, with less infrastructure and at reduced total cost as compared to traditional storage. Our InServ Storage Servers feature two new classes of storage systems—the 3PAR InServ T-Class and F-Class Storage Servers— that we believe are highly scalable to address the varying needs of enterprise and service provider datacenters. By sharing the same tightly clustered, cache-coherent, load-balanced, and modular architecture, all InServ Storage Servers are built to offer a smart, thin, and ready tiered storage platform for resilient utility and cloud computing. Building upon the capabilities of the prior generation, S-Class and E-Class InServ Storage Servers, these next generation storage systems include the 3PAR Gen3 ASIC, which enables new hardware assisted detection of allocated-but-unused capacity. InSpire Architecture—All of our storage servers feature our proprietary 3PAR InSpire Architecture, which we developed to deliver a simple yet powerful storage array for open systems. Central to this design is a high-bandwidth, low-latency backplane that unifies components into a highly scalable and autonomically load-balanced cluster. The core hardware elements of our InSpire Architecture include our 3PAR Gen3 ASIC with integrated fat-to-thin processing capability, also known as Thin Built In™, our proprietary full-mesh backplane with storage controller nodes, host bus adaptors for server and disk connectivity, drive chassis, drive magazines, and disk drives. All active hardware components can be configured redundantly within the system and the entire clustered storage architecture is managed as a single entity. We believe our InSpire Architecture is unique in that it enables all workloads to be distributed and shared across all system resources in a massively parallel fashion. This design is intended to deliver high and predictable levels of performance for all workloads as well as high utilization of purchased resources. Our InSpire Architecture also features controller nodes that allow each storage volume to be active on all of the controller nodes at the same time to support high availability, scalability and simplified management. InServ T-Class Storage Servers—We designed the 3PAR InServ T-Class Storage Servers to address the needs of large and highly demanding service provider and cloud computing storage infrastructures. All T-Class storage servers use the 3PAR InSpire Architecture featuring the Gen3 ASIC with Thin Built In. The T-Class storage servers have a silicon-based thin technology built into the system hardware, which is designed to increase capacity utilization while maintaining high service levels. InServ F-Class Storage Servers—We designed the 3PAR InServ F-Class Storage Servers to address the technical limitations of traditional midrange storage arrays by offering features and benefits typically only associated with high-end arrays. Our F-Class storage servers incorporate the same technologies as the T-Class storage servers but in a scaled-down, quad-controller capable system. 8 Table of Contents System Management Tools Our 3PAR InForm® Operating System and associated management tools incorporate built-in automation of storage configuration, provisioning, and management for all of our InServ Storage Servers. The virtualization and automation architected into our operating system are designed to deliver rapid configuration, automated provisioning, autonomic configuration, ongoing self-optimization, and secure protection of data across a global IT environment—simply and economically. Two management interface options are available for administering the InServ—the 3PAR InForm Management Console and the 3PAR InForm Command Line Interface, or CLI. Both management options are designed to provide instrumentation of all physical and logical objects for one or more storage servers, eliminating the need for extra tools and consulting related to diagnosis and troubleshooting. InForm Operating System—We designed the 3PAR InForm Operating System to simplify storage management through advanced virtualization capabilities, autonomic data management features, and through providing a unified operating system that works across all InServ product lines. As the foundation of our proprietary suite of server software, the InForm Operating System was developed to eliminate array planning, to provide instant, application-tailored provisioning, and to deliver a storage infrastructure that is self-configuring, self-optimizing, self-healing, and self-monitoring. The use of a single operating system across all lines of our storage servers is also intended to minimize training time related to storage management and to provide interoperability of management and remote replication software for data protection. InForm Management Console—We designed the 3PAR InForm Management Console to offer a simple point-and-click management interface that reduces the amount of training and ongoing administration required when working with the autonomic InForm Operating System. The InForm Management Console requires only a few actions for most system administration functions. InForm Command Line Interface—We designed the 3PAR InForm CLI to be easy to use and scriptable for enhanced automation and customizability of InForm Operating System functionality. Like the InForm Management Console, the InForm CLI requires only a few commands for most system administration functions. Software Applications We also provide our customers with a number of supplementary software applications, some of which we sell bundled with the InForm Operating System and others under perpetual license agreements that customers may purchase with or after the initial system purchase. The following descriptions represent a selective sampling of our available software offerings: Thin Provisioning—Our 3PAR Thin Provisioning software is designed to improve storage resource utilization by enabling customers to purchase capacity only as applications actually require it for written data. We believe this approach enables companies to scale their storage investments over time rather than having to estimate their storage needs and purchase all of their storage up front, which leads to low utilization rates and can result in the allocation of more capacity than a given project may ever need for actual written data. Virtual Copy—We believe our 3PAR Virtual Copy software allows customers to affordably protect and share data from any application without performance or production impact. Since Virtual Copy is built on thin copy technology, it consumes minimal physical capacity by referring to existing data rather than duplicating it. Traditional snapshot technologies require both an up-front capacity reservation of approximately 20-30% and a copy-on-write operation for each snapshot, which consumes far more capacity and impacts overall array performance. We have integrated Virtual Copy with a variety of applications including Microsoft® Exchange, Microsoft® SQL Server®, and Oracle® Databases. This integration is designed to ensure that snapshots taken of data stores 9 Table of Contents are consistent, enable integration with backup products, and facilitate rapid application recovery. Hundreds of copy-on-write snapshots of a single volume may be taken over consecutive periods to deliver a near-continuous data protection facility with many recovery points. Remote Copy—Our 3PAR Remote Copy software is designed to allow users to maintain data availability for business continuity by copying data from one InServ storage server to another in a remote location. Since Remote Copy is built on thin copy technology, it is capable of replicating both traditional and thin provisioned volumes. Remote Copy offers both synchronous and periodic asynchronous remote replication over short and long geographic distances. Virtual Domains—Our 3PAR Virtual Domains software is designed to deliver secure access and improved storage services for different applications and user groups. Virtual Domains is capable of segregating a single InServ Storage Server into thousands of secure virtual arrays, similar to virtual machine software. We believe by providing secure administrative segregation of users and hosts, Virtual Domains allows IT organizations to deliver customized, secure, and even “self-service” storage to multiple administrators, applications, and customers while still enabling organizations to enjoy the benefits of storage consolidation. Since users (or groups) have access to only those virtual domains to which they have been granted access, they can independently administer and monitor the system without interference from or visibility of other users. Dynamic Optimization—Our 3PAR Dynamic Optimization software is designed to enable IT administrators to define desired service levels to allow users to provision capacity and simply manage data lifecycle management policies. Dynamic Optimization is designed to allow organizations to align application and business requirements with data service levels to achieve optimal data service levels at a lower cost across all stages of the disk-based data lifecycle. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our products and support services primarily through our direct sales force but we also sell indirectly through resellers and channel partners. Our sales and marketing team consisted of 206 employees as of March 31, 2009. Direct Sales: Our direct sales team, with assistance from our marketing team, sells directly to large commercial enterprises worldwide, as well as to limited public sector accounts in the United States, including federal and state government entities. We maintain sales offices in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan. Indirect Sales: Our indirect sales consist of resellers and channel partners. Our channel partners and resellers primarily sell our products in markets, including non-English speaking countries, where we do not have a significant direct sales presence. In addition to selling and marketing our products, our channel partners have been trained by us and provide installation on our behalf in their local markets. Furthermore, we rely largely on resellers to sell our products to public sector accounts in the United States, including federal and state government entities. We also engage resellers to transact commercial sales in limited situations in the United States. When selling through resellers, as opposed to channel partners, we provide the installation of our storage systems to the end-customer. Marketing and Product Management In addition to building brand awareness and broadly marketing our products, our marketing team actively supports our sales process and team. Our marketing activities include lead generation, tele-sales, advertising, website operations, direct marketing and public relations, as well as participation at technology conferences and trade shows. 10 Table of Contents Customer Services We offer different maintenance support programs depending upon the needs of our customers’ deployments. Our customer service and support programs involve hardware support, software support and software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis for our InForm Suite and other software applications. Our customer services department includes support personnel located in California, the United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland, Singapore and Japan, who are available to respond 24 hours a day, every day of the year. We extend our support capabilities by qualifying and training authorized service providers and channel partners that can provide service and support to end customers in locations in which we do not provide direct support. We provide on-going support to our channel partners through backline support maintenance programs. Research and Development Continued investment in research and development is critical to our business. Because our utility storage solution is an integrated system of hardware and software, our research and development organization contains both hardware and software engineers. We employ application-specific integrated circuits, or ASIC, and storage systems engineers in the design, development, test and certification of our storage systems. We also employ software engineers in the design, development and test of our InForm Suite. As of March 31, 2009, our research and development team consisted of 204 full-time employees, 183 of which are located in Fremont, California and five in Woodinville, Washington. In June 2007, we opened a software development office in Belfast, Northern Ireland, which as of March 31, 2009 had a team of 16 engineers. We test and certify our platforms against a variety of third-party servers, operating systems, drivers, gateways, host bus adaptors and SAN fabric components. We plan to continue to dedicate significant resources to these continued research and development efforts. Further, as we continue to expand internationally, we may incur additional costs to conform our products to comply with local laws and local product specifications. Research and development expense totaled $46.3 million, $34.1 million and $24.5 million for fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Manufacturing Our manufacturing strategy is to supply high quality products in a timely fashion to our customers, while making efforts to maximize our gross margins. We perform manufacturing tasks internally that we believe cannot be outsourced and performed more effectively by specialized manufacturing partners. Our manufacturing operation located in our 56,000 sq. ft facility in Fremont, California, consists primarily of materials procurement, product assembly, product testing, quality assurance and global logistics. As of March 31, 2009 our manufacturing operations team consisted of 34 full-time employees. We also rely on a number of key suppliers in the manufacture and assembly of our products. These suppliers include Xyratex Technology Limited, or Xyratex, and Seagate Technology, or Seagate, from which we acquire our disk drives; Power-One, Inc., or Power-One, our supplier of power systems; and Renesas Technology Corp., or Renesas, our supplier of ASICs, which are a component of our controller nodes. In addition, we rely on AsteelFlash Group, or AsteelFlash, and Xyratex as contract manufacturers of our disk chassis. Our Competition The market for storage infrastructure is competitive and continually evolving. We compete against vendors in the data storage market that provide midrange and high-end storage array solutions. We expect competition to persist and intensify. Our main competitors that provide traditional monolithic storage arrays include EMC Corporation, or EMC, Hitachi Data Systems Corporation or Hitachi, and IBM and their respective resellers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. 11 Table of Contents Our main competitors that provide traditional modular storage arrays include EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company, NetApp Inc., Hitachi, IBM, Sun Microsystems, Inc., or Sun, and Dell Inc., or Dell, as well as their respective resellers and OEMs. Two of these competitors, EMC and IBM, have released clustered modular storage systems that have some limited architectural similarities to our storage platform. As the storage market opportunity grows, we also expect competition from emerging private companies and networking and telecommunications equipment suppliers that increasingly compete with our product offerings. Many of our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Our competitors may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we do, including long-standing relationships with our current or potential customers. In addition, these companies may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new technologies and may be able to market and sell their products more effectively. Moreover, if one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We believe that the principal factors on which we compete are the ease of use and the scalability of our products, the total cost of ownership of our utility storage platform, and the quality of our customer service and support. The benefits of our products that we emphasize from a competitive perspective include our ability to: • Deliver rapid and autonomic provisioning of storage volumes • Autonomically load balance data on physical disks • Minimize the use of pre-allocated, unused storage capacity • Efficiently allocate an application the virtual storage capacity it requires • Scale non-disruptively within a single, tiered storage system • Configure our utility storage solutions to target demands for high availability Environment We are committed to reducing both the energy requirements and the environmental impact of storage. For years we have been an industry leader in developing thin, green technologies that promote sustainability by increasing storage efficiency and reducing energy consumption. We also sponsor programs to promote energy efficiency and conservation. We are subject to regulations that have been adopted with respect to environmental matters, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, regulations adopted by the European Union. In February 2007, we announced the creation of our Carbon Neutral Storage initiative. Through this initiative, we augment the inherent energy efficiency of our utility storage platform by purchasing carbon offsets for every terabyte of disk capacity sold with our Thin Provisioning software. Our customers enrolled in this program since 2007 have accounted for a combined annualized energy savings equivalent to approximately 33 million kilowatt-hours and $4 million dollars. We believe our Carbon Neutral Storage initiative effectively delivers carbon-neutral storage by funding the purchase of carbon credits equivalent to one metric ton of carbon dioxide gas, or CO2, for each terabyte of 3PAR Utility Storage sold with Thin Provisioning. We purchase our carbon credits through TerraPass, Inc., one of the leading retailers of greenhouse gas reduction programs in the United States. In 2008 we introduced our Virtual Technology Incentive Program, which enables our customers to receive financial incentives in the form of rebates from select utilities companies for their participation in datacenter 12 Table of Contents storage virtualization efforts and thin provisioning projects. These rebates are based on the approximate amount of energy savings achieved by our customers through storage virtualization and their use of our Thin Provisioning software and our other thin technologies. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as customary contractual protections. We have been issued 26 United States patents, which expire between 2021 and 2027, and we have 15 United States utility patent applications pending. We also have counterparts granted and pending in other jurisdictions around the world. Our registered trademarks in the United States are the “3” design logo, “3PAR,” “InServ,” “InForm,” “InSpire” and “Serving Information.” In Europe, the “3” design logo, “3PAR,” “InServ,” “InSpire,” are registered Community Trade Marks. In Japan, the “3” design logo, “3PAR,” “InServ” and “InSpire” are registered trademarks. If not renewed, our trademarks expire between 2012 and 2016. In addition to the protections described above, we generally control access to and use of our proprietary software and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, customers and resellers, and our software is protected by United States and international copyright laws. We may not receive competitive advantages from the rights granted under our patents and other intellectual property rights. Our competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technologies, duplicate our proprietary technologies or design around the patents we own or license. Our existing and future patents may be circumvented, blocked, licensed to others or challenged as to inventorship, ownership, scope, validity or enforceability. It is possible that literature we may be advised of by third parties in the future could negatively affect the scope or enforceability of either our present or future patents. Furthermore, our pending and future patent applications may not issue with the scope of claims sought by us, if at all, or the scope of claims we are seeking may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Moreover, we have adopted a strategy of seeking limited patent protection with respect to the technologies used in or relating to our products. If our products, patents or patent applications are found to conflict with any patents held by third parties, we could be prevented from selling our products, our patents may be declared invalid or our patent applications may be denied. In foreign countries, our intellectual property rights may be substantially limited or entirely denied due to differences in applicable intellectual property laws or due to our inability to effectively enforce our rights under laws, or due to certain facts that are currently unforeseen or unforeseeable. We may be required to initiate litigation in order to enforce any patents issued to us, or to determine the scope or validity of a third-party’s patent or other proprietary rights. Third parties could claim that our products or technology infringe their proprietary rights. We have in the past and may in the future be contacted by third parties suggesting that we seek a license to intellectual property rights that they may believe we are infringing. In addition, in the future, we may be subject to lawsuits by third parties seeking to enforce their own intellectual property rights, as described in “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—Claims by other parties that we infringe their proprietary rights could harm our business.” We license our software pursuant to agreements that impose restrictions on customers’ ability to use the software, such as prohibiting reverse engineering and limiting the use of copies. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute nondisclosure and assignment of intellectual property agreements and by restricting access to our source code. Other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to enforce our rights adequately against these parties. 13 Table of Contents Backlog We do not believe that our backlog at any particular time is meaningful because it is not necessarily indicative of future revenue. In particular, a substantial number of our purchase orders do not include a shipment date, and shipments to customers may be delayed for substantial periods based on the customer’s specific needs. Employees As of March 31, 2009, we had 591 full-time employees consisting of 204 employees in research and development, 206 employees in sales and marketing, 69 employees in general and administration and 112 employees in customer services and manufacturing operations. A total of 59 of these employees were located outside of the United States. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our employee relations to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows the name, age and position as of May 1, 2009 of each of our executive officers: Name Age Position David C. Scott 47 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Adriel G. Lares 36 Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey A. Price 48 Chief Technical Officer, System Design, Co-Founder and Director Ashok Singhal 49 Chief Technical Officer, System Architecture and Co-Founder Peter Slocum 53 Vice President of Engineering Randall J. Weigel 49 Vice President of Worldwide Sales Paul L. Harvey 57 Vice President of Customer Service Craig S. Nunes 47 Vice President of Marketing Stephen F. Crimi 48 Vice President of Business Development and Alliances Randall T. Gast 47 Vice President of Corporate Operations Alastair A. Short 52 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Jeannette Robinson 58 Vice President of Human Resources David C. Scott has served as our president and chief executive officer since January 2001. From October 1991 to January 2001, Mr. Scott held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, a computing technology solutions and services company, most recently as the general manager of the XP enterprise storage business in its Network Storage Solutions organization. Mr. Scott holds a B.S. degree in Computer Science and Mathematics from Bristol University in the United Kingdom. Adriel G. Lares has served as our chief financial officer since January 2005. From March 2004 to January 2005, Mr. Lares served as our treasurer, and from March 2001 to March 2004, he served as our director of finance. From January 1999 to March 2001, Mr. Lares served as the chief financial officer of Techfuel Inc., a reseller of computer storage products. From February 1996 to December 1998, Mr. Lares was an investment banking analyst in the technology practice at Morgan Stanley, a financial services firm. From June 1994 to January 1996, Mr. Lares served as a treasury analyst at The Walt Disney Company, a diversified worldwide entertainment company. Mr. Lares holds a B.A. degree in Economics from Stanford University. Jeffrey A. Price is one of our co-founders and has served as our chief technology officer, system design since April 2009 and as a member of our board of directors since May 2001. From May 1999 to April 2009, Mr. Price served as our vice president of engineering. From February 1989 to April 1999, Mr. Price was a member of the architecture team at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a networking computing infrastructure solutions company, most recently as the director of systems engineering. 14 Table of Contents Ashok Singhal is one of our co-founders and has served as our chief technical officer since May 1999. In April 2009, Mr. Singhal’s title was changed to chief technical officer, system architecture. From September 1990 to April 1999, Mr. Singhal was a member of the architecture team at Sun Microsystems, Inc. where he served as the chief architect for mid-range servers from 1993 until April 1999. Mr. Singhal holds a BTech degree in Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Peter Slocum has served as our vice president of engineering since May 2009. From January 2006 to August 2007, Mr. Slocum was the vice president of engineering at ViVotech, a privately-held provider of contactless payment software, transaction management systems and readers. From December 2002 to December 2005, Mr. Slocum was the vice president of systems quality assurance and engineering operations at Brocade Communications Systems, a data center networking solutions and services company. Prior to these roles, Mr. Slocum served as vice president of engineering at both Cylink Corporation, a provider of hardware and software security products for mission-critical private networks and business communications over the Internet and Octel Communications, a provider of voice messaging systems and services. Mr. Slocum holds an M.S. in Computer Science from Georgia Tech and an MBA from the University of California at Berkeley. Randall J. Weigel has served as our vice president of worldwide sales since May 2009 and served as our regional vice president of North American commercial sales from July 2007 to April 2009. From January 2002 to July 2007, Mr. Weigel served as central area vice president of sales at Netapp, a provider of storage and data management solutions. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Weigel served in various leadership positions for Cisco Systems, a networking company, including operations director for the Southwest. Mr. Weigel holds a B.A degree in Communications from the University of Iowa. Paul L. Harvey has served as our vice president of customer services since December 2000. From February 1997 to November 2000, Mr. Harvey served as vice president of customer service at Livingston Enterprises, Inc. and Lucent Technologies Inc., a communications technology and services company. From 1976 to 1997, Mr. Harvey held various customer service positions, including senior director of customer services, at Amdahl Corporation, a computer manufacturing company. Craig S. Nunes has served as our vice president of marketing since January 2005. From July 2000 to December 2004, Mr. Nunes served as our senior director of marketing. From June 1989 to July 2000, Mr. Nunes served in various positions with Hewlett-Packard Company, most recently as its director of enterprise storage marketing. Mr. Nunes holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Petroleum Engineering from Stanford University and an M.B.A. from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Stephen F. Crimi has served as our vice president of business development and alliances since July 2006. From February 2005 to July 2006, Mr. Crimi served as our senior director of business development and alliances, and from October 2002 to February 2005, as our director of business development and alliances. From January 2002 to October 2002, Mr. Crimi was a principal in a management consulting company he founded. From February 2000 to December 2001, Mr. Crimi was vice president of business development and alliances at Acta Technology, Inc., a data integration vendor. Mr. Crimi holds a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from Union College, an M.B.A. from the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley and an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering, also from the University of California at Berkeley. Randall T. Gast has served as our vice president of corporate operations since May 2006. From August 2004 to April 2006, Mr. Gast served as vice president of global operations at Adaptec, Inc., an enterprise storage vendor. From October 2002 to July 2004, Mr. Gast was vice president of worldwide operations and customer support for Snap Appliance, Inc., a division of Adaptec, Inc. From September 1999 to September 2002, he served as acting vice president of worldwide operations and materials for Maxtor Corporation, a storage solution company. Mr. Gast holds a B.S. degree with a dual major in Manufacturing and Mechanical Engineering from Arizona State University. 15 Table of Contents Alastair A. Short has served as our vice president and general counsel since July 2002. From October 2001 to June 2002, Mr. Short served as vice president and general counsel of MetaTV, Inc., an interactive media software company. From April 2000 to September 2001, Mr. Short served as chief legal officer and assistant secretary for Netigy Corporation, a network infrastructure and services company. From July 1989 to March 2000, Mr. Short held various senior management positions at Hitachi Data Systems Corporation, a storage systems vendor, including executive vice president and general counsel. Mr. Short holds a Bachelor of Law Degree from the University of Warwick, England. Jeannette Robinson has served as our vice president of human resources since March 2001. From January 1996 to February 2001, Ms. Robinson was vice president of human resources for Corsair Communications, a provider of business solutions for the wireless industry. From June 1990 to January 1996, Ms. Robinson held various human resources management positions at Cisco Systems, Inc., an Internet networking equipment and network management company. Ms. Robinson holds a B.A. degree in Sociology/Criminology and a B.S. degree in Business Administration/Marketing from San Jose State University. Corporate Information We began operations in May 1999 and were incorporated in Delaware in May 2007. Our principal executive offices are located at 4209 Technology Drive, Fremont, California 94538, and our telephone number is (510) 413-5999. Our website address is www.3PAR.com. Website Posting of SEC Filings Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on our website and can be accessed by clicking on the “Investors” tab. Further, a copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of annual losses. Since our formation, we have recorded a net loss in all of our annual fiscal periods. In fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, our net loss was $959,000, $10.1 million and $15.5 million, respectively. While we reported net income in both the first quarter and third quarter of fiscal 2009, we were not profitable in the year ended March 31, 2009. As of March 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $174.9 million. During fiscal 2010, we expect to incur incremental expenditures in connection with the expansion of our business, including the hiring of additional direct sales and other key personnel. In addition, we anticipate that we will continue to incur significant legal, auditing, accounting and other expenses resulting from public company regulatory requirements. As a result, we will be required to increase our revenue substantially in order to achieve profitability on an annual basis. The general economic downturn and reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, and in particular for storage infrastructure, and on the financial health of our current and prospective customers, suppliers and manufacturers. In addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may require our customers to make significant initial commitments of capital. The general economic downturn has dramatically reduced business spending on technology infrastructure. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with substantial losses in equity markets 16 Table of Contents has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, the financial health of certain of our current and prospective customers and suppliers and manufacturers. Any harm to the financial health of our current and prospective customers could reduce their spending on storage infrastructure or impair their ability to obtain credit to finance purchases, which could result in lost opportunities, order cancellations or indefinite shipping delays. In addition, any harm to the financial health of our suppliers or manufacturers could adversely affect their ability to fulfill commitments to us, which could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and our research and development efforts. Due to the general economic downturn, we experienced a slowdown in our cash collections during the three months ended March 31, 2009. Decreased financial health of our current and prospective customers, continued or increased weakness in general economic conditions, or a reduction in storage infrastructure spending even if general economic conditions improve, may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including inventory writedowns, longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, reduced unit sales, increased number of days of sales outstanding and customer payment defaults. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. If our operating results fall below expectations, the price of our common stock could decline. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, the general economic downturn has adversely affected our ability to forecast long-term operating results. Additionally, we typically receive a substantial portion of our orders in the last two weeks of each fiscal quarter, which makes forecasting our future operating results difficult. Also, many of the orders we receive may include conditions or may not ship or be installed during the quarter in which they are received, in which case we cannot recognize revenue for those orders. Some of our orders are conditional upon customer acceptance criteria or successful testing of our products, and orders placed with our resellers by governmental entities may generally be terminated unilaterally or may be subject to additional conditions. As a result, predicting when orders will translate to revenue, and consequently predicting our future operating results, is extremely difficult. In addition, our quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenue may be significantly different from our historical or projected rates, and our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. In any quarter, our revenue may be largely attributable to a single customer’s orders, which could result in a substantial amount of revenue without a corresponding increase in operating expenses. Although in fiscal 2009 no customer represented 10% or more of our total revenue, in the first quarter and fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, 20% and 12% of our revenue, respectively, was attributable to sales to single customers in each of those periods. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. In addition to other risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may affect or result in period-to-period variability in our operating results include: • reductions in customers’ budgets for storage infrastructure purchases and indefinite delays in their budgeting and purchasing cycles, especially given the general economic downturn, could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results because the purchase of our products requires our customers to make strategic and capital investment decisions about their storage infrastructures; • aggressive pricing tactics by our competitors could adversely affect our operating results because we may offer our products at a discount to win business and maintain existing customers, which could decrease our gross margins; • the length of time between our receipt of orders and the recognition of revenue from those orders, which can be several quarters because orders may contain terms that do not permit us to recognize revenue until certain conditions have been satisfied; 17 Table of Contents • reductions in the size of individual transactions involving initial system sales, because smaller systems tend to have a smaller software component and, therefore, could decrease our gross margins; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship, in a timely manner, new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements; and • the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue if customers delay orders pending the new release or upgrade. We face significant competition from a number of established companies, which have offered and may continue to offer substantial pricing discounts and pursue other aggressive competitive tactics in order to attract and maintain customers. We face intense competition from a number of established companies that seek to provide storage solutions similar to our utility storage solution. Currently, these competitors include EMC, Hitachi, IBM, NetApp, HP, Sun. and Dell. All of these competitors, as well as other potential competitors, have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, more employees, better name recognition, a larger base of customers and more established customer relations than we have. Consequently, some of these companies have substantial control and influence regarding the acceptance of a particular industry standard or competing technology. In addition, these competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and may be able to deliver competitive products or technologies at a significantly lower initial cost than our products. For example, some of our competitors have offered bundled products and services in order to reduce the initial cost of their storage solution to a customer. Our competitors also may choose to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we may choose to adopt. For example, some of our competitors have offered their products either at significant discounts or even for free in response to our efforts to market the technological merits and overall cost benefits of our products. Some of our competitors may also have the ability to manufacture competitive products at lower costs. Our current or potential competitors may also offer bundled arrangements that include IT solutions, such as document management or security that we do not currently offer and that are unrelated to storage, but that may be desirable and beneficial features for our current and prospective customers. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that continually evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing storage products internally. Competition may also arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors or third parties, some of which already exist, to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We also have many competitors that have developed competing technologies. For example, some of our competitors have recently released or announced plans to release a storage technology that will directly compete with our utility storage solution, including our 3PAR Thin Provisioning software application. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new services and technologies that may offer greater performance and improved pricing compared to our products, any of which could harm our business. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that may render our services or technologies obsolete or uncompetitive. These and other competitive pressures may prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors. Many of our established competitors have long-standing relationships with key decision makers at many of our current and prospective customers. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively and maintain or increase our market share. Many of our competitors benefit from established brand awareness and long-standing relationships with key decision makers at many of our current and prospective customers. We expect that our competitors will seek to 18 Table of Contents leverage these existing relationships to discourage customers from purchasing our products. In particular, when competing against us, we expect our competitors to emphasize the importance of data storage retention, the high cost of data storage failure and the perceived risks of relying on products from a company with a shorter operating history and less predictable operating results. These factors may cause our current or prospective customers to be unwilling to purchase our products and instead to purchase the products of our better-known and more established competitors. In the event that we are unable to successfully sell our products to new customers, persuade customers of our competitors to purchase our products instead, or prevent our competitors from persuading our customers to purchase our competitors’ products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our market share. This would have a negative impact on our future operating results. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend substantially on our ability to attract and retain sales, management and other key personnel, and any failure to attract and retain these employees could harm our future revenues, business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend substantially on our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel as well as replace sales personnel we promote to managerial positions within the sales organization. In particular, we anticipate hiring direct sales personnel in fiscal 2010 and our operating plan assumes that we will be able to attract and retain our sales and other key employees. These positions require candidates with specific backgrounds in the storage industry, and competition for employees with this expertise can be intense. In addition, we believe that there are only a limited number of individuals with the specific skills required for many of our sales and other key positions. We have experienced substantial competition in our hiring efforts and also in our retention efforts as our personnel have been frequently recruited by other companies, including our competitors. As a result, we may be unable to identify, hire, or retain qualified individuals, which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues, business, operating results, and financial condition. To the extent that we are successful in hiring new employees to fill these positions, we need a significant amount of time to train the new employees before they can become effective and efficient in performing their jobs. As a result of the difficulty in finding and training qualified candidates, it is critical for us to retain the individuals who currently fill these positions. In particular, because competition for highly skilled sales and engineering employees can be intense in our industry, recruitment practices can be aggressive. Substantial groups of our employees in key functional areas such as sales and systems engineers have been targets of aggressive recruiting efforts, which could reoccur and result in a loss of key employees. Many of the employers with whom we compete for talent, or who may target our employee base, are larger with substantially greater resources than we have and may be able to offer compensation packages or other benefits that we do not provide or that are substantially more lucrative than our operating budgets permit. Any loss of our existing or future sales or other key personnel could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain key management personnel or to quickly fill any management vacancies that may arise. Our management personnel and other key employees can terminate their employment at any time, and our business could suffer if we are unable to replace any departing management personnel or other key employees. For example, we are currently in a period of transitioning our office of the Vice President of Worldwide Sales with the recent departure of our former vice president of worldwide sales. If we are unable to effectively accomplish the transition in a timely manner, disruption in our sales organization may occur and our future revenues could be harmed. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all other areas of our organization, including our customer services and finance department. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary technical, sales and other personnel on a cost-effective basis, we may be unable to grow our business and increase our revenue. 19 Table of Contents Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Our sales efforts involve substantial education of our current and prospective customers about the use and benefits of our products, including their technical merits and capabilities and potential cost savings to the organization as compared to the incumbent storage solutions or other storage solutions that our customers or prospective customers may be considering. This education process can be extremely time consuming and typically involves a significant product evaluation process. Historically, our sales cycle averages three to four months, but has, in some cases, exceeded 12 months. Despite the substantial time and money that we invest in our sales efforts, we cannot assure you that these efforts will produce any sales. In addition, product purchases by our current and prospective customers are frequently subject to their budget constraints, lengthy approval processes, and a variety of unpredictable administrative, processing and other delays, which have become increasingly prevalent during the current economic downturn. A substantial number of our purchase orders do not include a shipment date, and shipments to customers may be delayed for substantial periods based on the customer’s specific needs. Our sales cycle may prevent us from recognizing revenue in a particular quarter, is relatively long and costly and may not produce any sales, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate and harm our business. We purchase our disk drives, power supplies and certain components for our controller nodes from a limited number of qualified suppliers. If these or any of our other suppliers are not able to meet our requirements, it could harm our business. We purchase sophisticated components from a limited number of qualified suppliers. We purchase our disk drives from Xyratex or Seagate, our power supplies from Power-One Inc., and ASICs for our controller nodes from Renesas. Initially, suppliers of our disk drives, power supplies and ASICs require up to several months to qualify through a lengthy testing process and a substantial amount of work to enable interoperability with our products. In the event that it became necessary for us to find another supplier of these or any of the other components of our products, the time required to transition to the new supplier could take up to 12 months, due to the lengthy qualification and technology development process. We have in the past and may in the future experience quality control issues and delivery delays with our suppliers due to factors such as high industry demand or the inability of some vendors to consistently meet our quality or delivery requirements. We do not have a long-term contract with any of our current suppliers, and we purchase all components from our suppliers on a purchase order basis. In addition, the current global economic downturn could adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide essential services to us on a timely basis, if at all. If any of our suppliers were to cancel or materially change their commitments with us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for our products, we could lose time-sensitive customer orders, be unable to develop or sell certain products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we periodically transition our product line to incorporate new technologies developed by us or our suppliers. For example, from time to time our suppliers may discontinue production of existing components and products due to new technologies that are replacing such components and products. Often times we are not given substantial advanced notice of such discontinuances and our suppliers may require a significant amount of time to qualify the new technologies to ensure that they are compatible with our products. If such new technologies are not qualified in a timely manner, we could experience inventory shortages, which could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders which could harm our business. 20 Table of Contents We rely principally on two contract manufacturers to assemble portions of our products, and our failure to accurately forecast demand for our products or successfully manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. We rely principally on two contract manufacturers to assemble the disk chassis and controller nodes for each of our InServ Storage Server products, manage our supply chain and, alone or together with us, negotiate component costs. Specifically, we rely on AsteelFlash, to assemble our controller nodes and on Flash and Xyratex Technology Limited to assemble our disk chassis. Our reliance on our contract manufacturers for these disk chassis and controller nodes reduces our control over the assembly process, quality assurance, production costs and product supply. If we fail to manage our relationship with our contract manufacturers or if either of our contract manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to negotiate with suppliers for reduced component costs, our operating results could be harmed. The general economic downturn may adversely impact the financial condition and manufacturing capacity of our contract manufacturers, which could impair their ability to perform under our agreements. In addition, our contract manufacturers may terminate our agreements with them upon prior notice to us or for reasons such as if we become insolvent, or if we fail to perform a material obligation under our agreements with them. If we are required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal manufacturing operations for any reason, (including financial problems of our contract manufacturers, reduction of manufacturing output made available to us, or the termination of one of our contracts), we may lose revenue, incur increased costs and damage our customer relationships. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production are expensive and time-consuming. We are required to provide forecasts to our contract manufacturers regarding product demand and production levels. We maintain with our contract manufacturers a rolling 90-day firm order for products they manufacture for us, and these orders may only be rescheduled or cancelled under certain limited conditions. If we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties, which could adversely impact our operating results. We intend to introduce new products and product enhancements, which could require us to achieve volume production rapidly by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and component suppliers. We may need to increase our component purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions if we experience increased demand. If our contract manufacturers are unable to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products, or if we or either of our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain adequate quantities of components, it could cause a delay in our order fulfillment, in which case our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Because of a change to our business model in March 2007, our past results may not be meaningful as compared to our current and future results, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Beginning in March 2007, in connection with sales of our products, we began offering our customers post-contract customer support, which we refer to as PCS, that includes obligations to provide unspecified software upgrades and enhancements to our customers on a when-and-if-available basis. Thus, beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we began recognizing software support revenue ratably over the term of our software support contract, rather than recognizing the entire arrangement at the time of shipment or installation as we had done previously, provided that the remaining revenue recognition criteria were satisfied. As a result of this change to our business model, and because revenue in the first half of fiscal 2009 benefited from recognition of an incremental $2.2 million of deferred revenue related to software support associated with the establishment of vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value on the March 2007 transactions that we were previously recognizing on a ratable basis, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, 21 Table of Contents and you should not rely on our past results, particularly the growth in our revenue in absolute dollars on a year-over-year basis, as an indication of our future performance. In addition, if for whatever reason we are unable to maintain VSOE of fair value of our software support, decide to discontinue offering PCS or otherwise change our business model, it could further complicate period-to-period comparisons of our operating results. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our customer support and services, and any failure to offer high-quality support and services would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Once our products are deployed, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. Our products provide mission-critical services to our customers and a high level of customer support is necessary to maintain our customer relationships. We rely on authorized service providers in certain locations in the United States to install our products and deliver initial levels of on-site customer support and services. While we carefully identify, train, and certify our authorized service providers, it may be more difficult for us to ensure the proper delivery and installation of our products or the quality or responsiveness of the support and services being provided. As we grow our business, our ability to provide effective customer support and services will continue to be largely dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified direct customer service personnel and our ability to maintain and grow our network of authorized service providers. Additionally, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English, as well as identifying, training, and certifying international authorized service providers to support products we may deploy in geographical areas in which we may not currently have authorized service providers. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on strong word-of-mouth recommendations from our customers. We believe that communication among our customers is both rapid and frequent. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer support and services, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality customer support and services, could harm our reputation, adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing and prospective customers, and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on channel partners and resellers to sell our products in markets where we do not have a direct sales force, and on channel partners and authorized service providers to service and support our products in markets where we do not have direct customer service personnel. Any disruptions to, or failure to develop and manage, our relationships with channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers could have an adverse effect on our customer relationships and on our ability to increase revenue. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to establish and maintain successful relationships with a variety of channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers in markets where we do not have a direct sales force or direct customer service personnel. We currently have a direct sales force in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan, although we rely heavily on our channel partners in Japan. In other markets, we rely and expect to continue to rely on establishing relationships with channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers. Our ability to maintain or grow our international revenue will depend, in part, on our ability to manage and expand our network of channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers internationally. Whereas, channel partners and resellers engage in the sale of products, in addition to their sales activities, our channel partners also provide installation, post-sale service and support on our behalf in their local markets. We also have agreements with authorized service providers that, although they do not sell our products, deliver and install our products, as well as provide post-sale customer service and support, on our behalf in their local markets. In markets where we rely on channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers, we have less contact with our customers and less control over the sales process and the quality and responsiveness of our channel partners, resellers and authorized service partners. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to ensure the proper delivery and installation of our products or the quality or responsiveness of the support and services being offered. Any failure on our part to effectively identify and train our channel partners, resellers and 22 Table of Contents authorized service providers and to monitor their sales activity as well as the customer support and services being provided to our customers in their local markets could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Identifying, training, and retaining qualified channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers requires significant time and resources. In order to maintain and expand our network of channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers, we must continue to scale and improve the systems, processes, and procedures that support our resellers and authorized service providers, which will require continuing investment in our information technology infrastructure and dedication of significant training resources. As we grow our business and support organization, these systems, processes, and procedures may become increasingly complex, difficult and expensive to manage, particularly as the geographic scope of our customer base expands globally. We typically enter into non-exclusive, written agreements with our channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers. These agreements generally have a one-year, self-renewing term, have no minimum sales commitment, and do not prohibit our channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers from offering products and services that compete with ours. Accordingly, our channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers may choose to discontinue offering our products and services or may not devote sufficient attention and resources toward selling our products and services. Additionally, our competitors may provide incentives to our existing and potential channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers to use, purchase or offer their products and services or to prevent or reduce sales of our products and services. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business would be harmed. In recent years, we have experienced substantial growth in the size and scope of our business, and if that growth continues, it will place significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. In fiscal 2008, our number of employees increased from 312 to 451 and in fiscal 2009, we increased our number of employees to 591. We have also expanded the geographic scope of our business during that period, including the establishment of research and development operations in Northern Ireland in fiscal 2008. We expect to continue to expand internationally through direct sales efforts and by establishing indirect sales and support relationships with channel partners, resellers and authorized service providers in select international markets. Continued growth in the size and scope of our business operations will require substantial management attention. For example, our management will have to increasingly dedicate its time and attention to oversee our efforts to recruit, integrate and retain highly-skilled personnel to join our growing internal departments; to manage a growing and dispersed geography to support the expansion of our research and development, sales and customer support organizations; and to expand and improve our information technology infrastructure and network of facilities to support a growing employee and customer base. In addition, our management will have to enhance and improve company-wide processes and procedures to address human resource, financial reporting and financial management matters that are consistent across our organization and comply with applicable U.S. and international regulatory and legal requirements. If we are not successful in effectively managing our growth, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our international sales and operations introduce risks that can harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In fiscal 2009 and 2008, we derived 16% and 17% of our revenue from end customers outside the United States, respectively. We expect that our international sales will continue to contribute a similar percentage of our total revenue on an annual basis. We have direct sales personnel in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan and agreements with third-party resellers or channel partners in Belgium, France, China, Czech Republic, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Luxembourg, Malaysia, The Netherlands, Poland, Spain, the United Kingdom, Singapore, South Africa and Taiwan. In addition, we currently have international subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany, Singapore and Japan. We expect to continue to hire additional 23 Table of Contents sales personnel and expand our network of channel partners and resellers internationally and as a result may need to establish additional international subsidiaries and offices. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: • our inability to employ qualified management and other personnel; • the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • difficulties in enforcing contracts, collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; • the need to localize our products and licensing programs for international customers; • tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; and • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. In addition, although the functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the U.S. Dollar, in countries outside the U.S. we transact business in various currencies besides the U.S. Dollar and we have certain cash accounts, receivables and payables balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. We are currently hedging certain Euro and British Pound denominated receivables held by us to reduce the risk that our earnings would be adversely affected by changes in the British Pound exchange rate. Our hedging activities reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates could negatively impact our results from operations. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, which in turn could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in foreign markets. Because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, our products are subject to United States export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to introduce products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or an inability to export or sell our products to, existing or prospective customers with international operations and harm our business. We are subject to laws and regulations governing the environment and may incur substantial environmental regulation costs, which could harm our operating results. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of 24 Table of Contents those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. These laws and regulations have been enacted in several jurisdictions in which we sell our products, including various European Union, or EU, member countries. For example, the EU has enacted RoHS and WEEE directives. RoHS prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard drives, sold after July 1, 2006. The WEEE directive obligates parties that sell electrical and electronic equipment in the EU to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment and provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the equipment. There is still some uncertainty in certain EU countries as to which party involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic equipment will be ultimately responsible for registration, reporting and disposal. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we sell our products. We will need to ensure that we comply with these laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also comply with these laws and regulations. If we or our component suppliers fail to comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse or be unable to purchase our products, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In connection with our compliance with these environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. As we seek to increase our sales to the public sector, we may face difficulties and risks unique to government contracts that may have a detrimental impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Historically, we have sold products to United States government agencies through third-party resellers. We established a wholly owned subsidiary through which we have sold and intend to continue to sell directly to more entities and agencies within the United States government and state and local governments. Developing new business in the public sector often requires the development of relationships with different agencies or entities, as well as with other government contractors. If we are unable to develop or sustain such relationships, we may be unable to procure new contracts within the timeframes we expect, and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Contracting with the United States government often requires businesses to participate in a highly competitive bidding process to obtain new contracts. We may be unable to bid competitively if our products or services are improperly priced, or if we are incapable of providing our products and services at a competitive price. The bidding process is an expensive and time-consuming endeavor that may result in a financial loss for us if we fail to win a contract on which we submitted a bid. Further, some agencies within the United States government may also require some or all of our personnel to obtain a security clearance or may require us to add features or functionality to our products that could require a significant amount of time and prevent our employees from working on other critical projects. If our key personnel are unable to obtain or retain this clearance or if we cannot or do not provide required features or functionality, we may be unsuccessful in our bid for some government contracts. Contracts with governmental entities also frequently include provisions not found in private sector contracts and are often governed by laws and regulations that do not affect private sector contracts. These unique provisions may permit public sector customers to take actions not available to customers in the private sector. These actions may include termination of contracts for convenience or due to a default. The United States government can also suspend operations if Congress does not allocate sufficient funds to a particular agency or organization, and the United States government may allow our competitors to protest our successful bids. The occurrence of any of these events may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In order to maintain contracts we may obtain with government entities, we must also comply with many rules and regulations that may affect our relationships with other customers. For example, the United States 25 Table of Contents government could terminate its contracts with us if we come under foreign government control or influence, may require that we disclose our pricing data during the course of negotiations, and may require us to prevent access to classified data. If the United States government requires us to meet any of these demands, it could increase our costs or prevent us from taking advantage of certain opportunities that may present themselves in the future. United States government agencies routinely investigate and audit government contractors’ administrative processes. They may audit our performance and our pricing, and review our compliance with rules and regulations. If they find that we have improperly allocated costs, they may require us to refund those costs or may refuse to pay us for outstanding balances related to the improper allocation. An unfavorable audit could reduce our revenue, and may result in civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, particularly outside of the United States. Further, with respect to patent rights, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims, and even if patents are issued, they may be contested, circumvented or invalidated over the course of our business. Moreover, the rights granted under any of our issued patents or patents that may be issued in the future may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own now or in the future. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary rights could harm our business. Third parties could claim that our products or technology infringe their proprietary rights. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future be contacted by third parties suggesting that we seek a license to certain of their intellectual property rights that they may believe we are infringing. We expect that infringement claims against us may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility, we believe that we will face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment against us could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers, resellers and authorized service providers. Because we generally indemnify our customers, resellers and authorized service providers if our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, any such claims would require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers, resellers and authorized service providers. 26 Table of Contents We may not generate positive returns on our research and development investments. Developing our products is expensive. In fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, our research and development expenses were $46.3 million, or 25% of our total revenue, $34.1 million, or 29% of our total revenue, and $24.5 million, or 37% of our total revenue, respectively. Our future plans include significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, our ability to generate positive returns on these investments may take several years, if we are able to do so at all. If we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We compete in a market characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a timely manner, or at all. For example, our failure to develop additional features that our competitors are able to provide could adversely affect our business. In addition, although we invest a considerable amount of money into our research and development efforts, any new products or product enhancements that we develop may not achieve widespread market acceptance. As competition increases in the storage industry and the information technology industry in general, it may become even more difficult for us to stay abreast of technological changes or develop new technologies or introduce new products as quickly as our competitors, many of which have substantially greater financial and engineering resources than we do. Additionally, risks associated with the introduction of new products or product enhancements include difficulty in predicting customer needs or preferences, transitioning existing products to incorporate new technologies, the capability of our suppliers to deliver high-quality components required by such new products or product enhancements in a timely fashion, and unknown defects in such new products or product enhancements. If we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological or market changes or effectively manage the transitions to new products or new technologies, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected software or hardware errors or failures, which could cause harm to our financial condition and our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our products are highly technical and complex and are critical to the operation of storage networks. We test our products prior to commercial release and during such testing have discovered and may in the future discover errors and defects that need to be resolved prior to release. Resolving these errors and defects can take a significant amount of time and prevent our technical personnel from working on other important tasks. In addition, our products have contained and may in the future contain one or more errors, defects or security vulnerabilities that were not detected prior to commercial release to our customers. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release, as well as any computer virus or human error on the part of our customer support personnel or authorized service providers that result in a customer’s data unavailability, loss or corruption, could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including in relation to changes to our products made by our resellers or authorized service providers. Our contracts with our customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 27 Table of Contents If flaws in the design, production, assembly or testing of our products or our suppliers components were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that would result in substantial repair, replacement or service costs and potential damage to our reputation. Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities, control of material and manufacturing quality and costs and product testing are critical factors in our future growth. We cannot assure you that our efforts to monitor, develop, modify and implement appropriate test and manufacturing processes for our products will be sufficient to permit us to avoid a rate of failure in our products that results in substantial delays in shipment, significant repair or replacement costs or potential damage to our reputation, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in financial accounting standards or business practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported operating results. A change in accounting standards or business practices can have a significant impact on our operating results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing accounting rules or our business or accounting practices, such as our change to a software support model in March 2007, may adversely affect our reported financial results. We may seek to engage in the acquisition of other companies or assets, all or many of which could be viewed negatively, lead to integration problems, disrupt our business, increase our expenses, reduce our cash, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our financial condition and operating results. In the future, we may seek to acquire companies or assets that we believe may enhance our market position. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we cannot assure you that they will not be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities and increase our expenses. Any acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are incurring significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and NYSE have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices, and may continue to impose new or modified requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform annual system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial expenses and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. 28 Table of Contents If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are identified and deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, NYSE or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. If we need additional capital in the future, it may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We may require, or elect to access, additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to fund our operations, or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing or future holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems or services provided by our suppliers and manufacturers could impair our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenue. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power losses, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. In addition, our corporate headquarters, inventory storage facilities and product assembly centers, as well as the facilities of many of our suppliers and manufacturers, are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes. Some of our manufacturers also have facilities located in Asia, which could be adversely impacted by political or economic stability, inadequacy of local infrastructure to support our needs and difficulty in maintaining sufficient quality control over manufactured components and products. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at one or more of these locations could result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the deployment of our products, and lengthy interruptions in our service, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile, and our common stock has a limited trading history. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include: • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new or enhanced services, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • gain or loss of significant customers; • recruitment or departure of our key personnel; • the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale, including for sale by affiliates and other stockholders that own substantial amounts of our common stock; 29 Table of Contents • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business. The trading price of our common stock might also decline as a result of events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Reports published by securities or industry analysts, including projections in those reports that exceed our actual results, could adversely affect our stock price and trading volume. Securities research analysts establish and publish their own quarterly projections regarding us and our business. These projections may vary widely from one another and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if we fail to meet securities research analysts’ projections. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly our stock price or trading volume could decline. In addition, if securities or industry analysts cease coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock and the trading volume could decline. Insiders have substantial control over us and are able to influence corporate matters. At March 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 39% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, a former affiliate of one of our directors beneficially owns approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: • authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 20,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president; • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; 30 Table of Contents • establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered terms; • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; • specify that no stockholder is permitted to cumulate votes at any election of directors; and • require a super-majority of votes to amend certain of the above-mentioned provisions. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. Section 203 generally prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder subject to certain exceptions ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 