Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition and, general economic conditions. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. Risks Related to our Business and Industry We have been operating at a loss. We have experienced significant operating losses in each year of our business. We had a net loss of approximately $41.6 million, $124.6 million and $12.7 million for years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future until we generate sufficient Abraxane® revenues to offset our research and development activities to support our continuing product development efforts. We are highly dependent upon the strong market acceptance of Abraxane®. Our future profitability is highly dependent on the strong market acceptance of Abraxane®. For the year ended December 31, 2007, total Abraxane® revenue was $324.7 million, including $36.4 million of recognized deferred revenue relating to the co-promotion agreement with AstraZeneca. For the year ended December 31, 2006, total Abraxane® revenue was $174.9 million, including $18.2 million of recognized deferred revenue 23 Table of Contents relating to the co-promotion agreement with AstraZeneca. Because Abraxane® is our only approved product, Abraxane® revenue represented approximately 97% and 96% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We anticipate that sales of Abraxane® will remain a substantial portion of our total revenue over the next several years. However, a number of pharmaceutical companies are working to develop alternative formulations of paclitaxel and other cancer drugs and therapies, any of which may compete directly or indirectly with Abraxane® and which might adversely affect the commercial success of Abraxane®. Abraxane® could lose market share or revenue due to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • lower prices offered on similar products by other manufacturers; • substitute or alternative products or therapies; • development by others of new pharmaceutical products or treatments that are more effective than Abraxane®; • introduction of other generic equivalents or products which may be therapeutically interchanged with Abraxane®; • interruptions in manufacturing or supply; • changes in the prescribing practices of physicians; • changes in third-party reimbursement practices; and • migration of key customers to other manufacturers or sellers. In addition, we will continue to make a significant investment in Abraxane®, including costs associated with conducting clinical trials and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals for the use of Abraxane® in other indications and settings and in other jurisdictions, expansion of our marketing, sales and manufacturing staff, the acquisition of paclitaxel raw material, expansion of manufacturing facilities and the manufacture of finished product. The success of Abraxane® in the Phase III trial for metastatic breast cancer and other clinical trials may not be representative of future clinical trial results for Abraxane® with respect to other clinical indications. The results from clinical, pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials conducted to date may not be predictive of results to be obtained in later clinical trials, including those ongoing at present. Further, the commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • slower than anticipated patient enrollment; • difficulty in finding and retaining patients fitting the trial profile or protocols; and • adverse events occurring during the clinical trials. Although approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, for the indication of metastatic breast cancer in January 2005, Abraxane® may not generate sales sufficient to recoup our investment. Our inability to successfully manufacture, market and commercialize Abraxane® would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Proprietary product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We intend to maintain an aggressive research and development program for proprietary pharmaceutical products. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and statistically very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early stage human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, including: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive pre-clinical trial results; 24 Table of Contents • the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve a product candidate for an intended use; • the product candidate was not economical to manufacture and commercialize; • other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to a product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let the product candidate be sold on reasonable terms, or at all; or • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics. We may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if side effects or manufacturing problems are identified after our products are on the market. If side effects are identified after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and product recalls, reformulation of products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of products, and changes to or re-approvals of our manufacturing facilities may be required, any of which could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. After products are approved for commercial use, we or regulatory bodies could decide that changes to the product labeling are required. Label changes may be necessary for a number of reasons, including the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy concerns by regulatory agencies or the discovery of significant problems with a similar product that implicates an entire class of products. Any significant concerns raised about the safety or efficacy of our products could also result in the need to recall products, reformulate those products, to conduct additional clinical trials, to make changes to the manufacturing processes, or to seek re-approval of the manufacturing facilities. Significant concerns about the safety and effectiveness of a product could ultimately lead to the revocation of our marketing approval. The revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above could be required even if there is no clearly established connection between the product and the safety or efficacy concerns that have been raised. The revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. If we or our suppliers are unable to comply with ongoing and changing regulatory standards, sales of our products could be delayed or prevented. Virtually all aspects of our business, including the development, testing, manufacturing, processing, quality, safety, efficacy, packaging, labeling, record-keeping, distribution, storage and advertising and promotion of our products and disposal of waste products arising from these activities, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA and the Department of Health and Humans Services Office of Inspector General (OIG). Our business is also subject to regulation in foreign countries. Compliance with these regulations is costly and time-consuming. Our manufacturing facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. For example, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with detailed regulations governing current good manufacturing practices, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance. We must spend funds, time and effort in the areas of production, safety, quality control and quality assurance to ensure compliance with these regulations. We cannot assure that our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers will not be subject to regulatory action in the future. 25 Table of Contents Our products generally must receive appropriate regulatory clearance before they can be sold in a particular country, including the United States. We may encounter delays in the introduction of a product as a result of, among other things, insufficient or incomplete submissions to the FDA for approval of a product, objections by another company with respect to our submissions for approval, new patents by other companies, patent challenges by other companies which result in a 180-day exclusivity period, and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development or during the regulatory approval process. The FDA has the authority to revoke drug approvals previously granted and remove from the market previously approved products for various reasons, including issues related to current good manufacturing practices for that particular product or in general. We may be subject from time to time to product recalls initiated by us or by the FDA. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, the revocation of a prior approval, or product recalls could impose significant costs on us and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. Our inability or the inability of our suppliers to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, consent decrees restricting or suspending our manufacturing operations, delay of approvals for new products, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of sales and criminal prosecution. Any of these or other regulatory actions could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We depend on third parties to supply raw materials and other components and may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which will limit our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and harm our operating results. The manufacture of Abraxane® requires, and our product candidates will require, raw materials and other components that must meet stringent FDA requirements. Some of these raw materials and other components are available only from a limited number of sources. We have entered into agreements with Indena SpA and ScinoPharm Taiwan, Ltd. to supply us with paclitaxel, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Abraxane®. One of the suppliers is currently in the process of being qualified by the appropriate regulatory authorities. We believe there currently are more than 15 potential commercial suppliers of paclitaxel raw material. We have not historically experienced any paclitaxel supply shortages. Additionally, we maintain a safety stock supply of paclitaxel to mitigate any supply disruption. We believe our current paclitaxel inventory is sufficient to meet our needs for at least the next 18 months. Our regulatory approvals for each particular product denote the raw materials and components, and the suppliers for such materials, we may use for that product. Obtaining approval to change, substitute or add a raw material or component, or the supplier of a raw material or component, can be time consuming and expensive, as testing and regulatory approval are necessary. If our suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or we encounter difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, the manufacture and sale of our products may be disrupted, and our business, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. The injectable pharmaceutical products markets are highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenue will decline and our business will be harmed. The markets for injectable pharmaceutical products are highly competitive, rapidly changing and undergoing consolidation. Abraxane® competes, directly or indirectly, with the primary taxanes in the market place, including Bristol-Myers Squibb’s Taxol® and its generic equivalents, Sanofi-Aventis’ Taxotere® and other cancer therapies. Many pharmaceutical companies have developed and are marketing, or are developing, alternative formulations of paclitaxel and other cancer therapies that may compete directly or indirectly with Abraxane®. Many of our competitors have significantly greater research and development, financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, regulatory and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of their products, receive greater resources and support for their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, more readily take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, or otherwise more successfully market their products. 26 Table of Contents Any reduction in demand for our products could lead to a decrease in prices, fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced margins, reduced levels of profitability, or loss of market share. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our business and operating results. Other companies may claim that we infringe on their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. The manufacture, use and sale of new products with conflicting patent rights have been subject to substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. A number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions may have filed patent applications or may have been granted patents that cover aspects of our products or our licensors’ products, product candidates or other technologies. Future or existing patents issued to third parties may contain claims that conflict with our products. We may be subject to infringement claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, and third parties could assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to Abraxane®, products that we may develop or products that we may license. We currently are involved in a patent infringement lawsuit against Élan Pharmaceutical Int’l Ltd. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” below. Litigation or interference proceedings could force us to: • stop or delay selling, manufacturing or using products that incorporate or are made using the challenged intellectual property; • pay damages; or • enter into licensing or royalty agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of their outcome, would likely delay the regulatory approval process, be costly and require significant time and attention of key management and technical personnel. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and foreign countries could limit our ability to manufacture or sell our products. We rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, continuing technological innovation and patent protection to preserve our competitive position. Our patents and those for which we have licensed or will license rights, including for Abraxane®, may be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, and the rights granted in those patents may not provide proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us. We and our licensors may not be able to develop patentable products. Even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us. Third-party patents could reduce the coverage of the patents licensed, or that may be licensed to or owned by us. If patents containing competitive or conflicting claims are issued to third parties, we may be prevented from commercializing the products covered by such patents, or may be required to obtain or develop alternate technology. In addition, other parties may duplicate, design around or independently develop similar or alternative technologies. We may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or using our intellectual property. We generally control and limit access to, and the distribution of, our product documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect this proprietary information, however, unauthorized parties may obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Other parties may independently develop similar know-how or may even obtain access to these technologies. 27 Table of Contents The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary information to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary information in these foreign countries. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the courts have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical patents. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. We may have potential conflicts of interest with New APP. Conflicts of interest may arise between New APP and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • business opportunities that may be attractive to both New APP and us; • manufacturing and transitional service arrangements we have entered into with New APP; • lease agreements we have entered into with New APP; and • employee retention and recruiting. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors, Patrick Soon-Shiong, M.D., is also the chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors of new APP. Our Chief Financial Officer, Lisa Gopala, is also the chief financial officer of new APP. Dr. Soon-Shiong also owns over 80% of the outstanding capital stock of New APP and us. Accordingly, he may experience conflicts of interest with respect to decisions involving business opportunities and similar matters that may arise in the ordinary course of our business, on the one hand, and the business of New APP, on the other hand. In connection with the separation and related transactions, we entered into an agreement with New APP under which we and New APP have acknowledged and agreed that Dr. Soon-Shiong and Ms. Gopala will serve as officers of both companies and receive compensation from either or both companies. New APP also acknowledged and agreed in this agreement that neither Dr. Soon-Shiong nor Ms. Gopala will have any obligation to present to New APP any business or corporate opportunity that may come to his or her attention other than certain business opportunities relating to the manufacture or sale of products that either were manufactured and sold by the hospital-based products business prior to the separation or were the subject of an ANDA filed prior to the separation and related transactions. This agreement does not ensure the continued services of either Dr. Soon-Shiong or Ms. Gopala, restrict these individuals from resigning from our company or restrict our board of directors from terminating their employment with us. In connection with the private letter ruling, Old Abraxis has represented to the Internal Revenue Service that no person will serve as an executive officer of both us and New APP one year following the distribution. Resolutions of some potential conflicts of interest are subject to review and approval by the audit committee of our board of directors or approval by another independent committee of our board of directors. We still may be unable, however, to resolve some potential conflicts of interest with New APP and Dr. Soon-Shiong and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. The strategy to license rights to or acquire and commercialize proprietary, biological injectable or other specialty injectable products may not be successful, and we may never receive any return on our investment in these products. We may license rights to or acquire products or technologies from third parties. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial and sales and marketing resources, will compete with us to license rights to or acquire these products and technologies. We may not be able to license rights to or acquire these proprietary or other products or technologies on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we obtain rights to a 28 Table of Contents pharmaceutical product and commit to payment terms, including, in some cases, significant up-front license payments, we may not be able to generate product sales sufficient to create a profit or otherwise avoid a loss. A product candidate may fail to result in a commercially successful drug for other reasons, including the possibility that the product candidate may: • be found during clinical trials to be unsafe or ineffective; • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • be difficult or uneconomical to produce in commercial quantities; • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties; or • fail to achieve market acceptance. The marketing strategy, distribution channels and levels of competition with respect to any licensed or acquired product may be different from those of Abraxane®, and we may not be able to compete favorably in any new product category. We may become subject to federal false claims or other similar litigation brought by private individuals and the government. The Federal False Claims Act allows persons meeting specified requirements to bring suit alleging false or fraudulent Medicare or Medicaid claims and to share in any amounts paid to the government in fines or settlement. These suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a health care company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines and/or be excluded from Medicare and Medicaid programs. Federal false claims litigation can lead to civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment and/or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded health programs. Other alternate theories of liability may also be available to private parties seeking redress for such claims. A number of parties have brought claims against numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers, and we cannot be certain that such claims will not be brought against us, or if they are brought, that such claims might not be successful. We may need to change our business practices to comply with changes to, or may be subject to charges under, the fraud and abuse laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and its various state analogues, the federal False Claims Act and marketing and pricing laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We may have to change our advertising and promotional business practices, or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful due to changes in laws, regulations or rules or due to administrative or judicial findings, which could materially adversely affect our business. We face uncertainty related to pricing and reimbursement and health care reform. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care-related organizations. Effective January 1, 2006, we received a unique reimbursement “J” code for Abraxane® from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. That code allows providers to bill Medicare for the use of Abraxane®. We believe that most major insurers reimburse providers for Abraxane® use consistent with the FDA-approved indication, which we believe is consistent with the reimbursement practices of major insurers for other drugs containing paclitaxel for the same indication. However, reimbursement by such payors is presently undergoing reform, and there is significant 29 Table of Contents uncertainty at this time how this will affect sales of certain pharmaceutical products. There is possible U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, including under Medicaid and Medicare, the importation of prescription drugs that are marketed outside the U.S. and sold at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries. Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental reimbursement legislation or programs govern drug coverage and reimbursement levels in the United States. Federal law requires all pharmaceutical manufacturers to rebate a percentage of their revenue arising from Medicaid-reimbursed drug sales to individual states. For Abraxane® and any other proprietary products, which are marketed and sold under new drug applications, manufacturers are required to rebate the greater of (a) 15.1% of the average manufacturer price or (b) the difference between the average manufacturer price and the lowest manufacturer price for products sold during a specified period. Both the federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation, rules and regulations designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care. Existing regulations that affect the price of pharmaceutical and other medical products may also change before any of our products are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product we develop in the future. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and litigation has been filed against a number of pharmaceutical companies in relation to these issues. Additionally, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved injectable pharmaceutical products. Our products may not be considered cost effective or adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an adequate return on our investment. State pharmaceutical marketing compliance and reporting requirements may expose us to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities. In recent years, several states, including California, Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico and West Virginia, in addition to the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports on sales, marketing, pricing and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and available guidance is limited. We are continuing to assess our compliance with these state laws. Unless we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could harm our business. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. We maintain insurance coverage for product liability claims in the aggregate amount of $100 million, including primary and excess coverages, which we believe is reasonably adequate coverage. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could exceed policy limits, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for these products. We depend heavily on the principal members of our management and research and development teams, the loss of whom could harm our business. We depend heavily on the principal members of our management and research and development teams, including Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong, Chief Executive Officer, Lisa Gopala, Chief Financial Officer, Bruce Wendel, Executive Vice President of Corporate Operations and Development, Neil P. Desai, Vice President of Research and Development, and Nicholas Everett, Chief Scientist, Drug Discovery. Each of the members of the executive management team is employed “at will.” The loss of the services of any member of the executive management team may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development or business objectives. 30 Table of Contents To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the inability to do so could seriously harm our business and operations. To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees. We face competition for qualified scientific, technical and other personnel, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We also must continue to attract and motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals. If we are unable to integrate successfully potential future acquisitions, our business may be harmed. As part of our business strategy and growth plan, we may acquire businesses, technologies or products that we believe will complement our business. The process of integrating an acquired business, technology or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our existing business. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that any acquired company achieved or might have achieved separately. Successful integration of the companies that we may acquire will depend upon our ability to, among other things, eliminate redundancies and excess costs. As a result of difficulties associated with combining operations, we may not be able to achieve cost savings and other benefits that the company might hope to achieve with acquisitions. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or have an undesirable impact on our financial statements. Risks Relating to Our Separation We have no history operating as an independent company, and we may be unable to make the changes necessary to operate successfully as an independent company. Prior to the separation, our business was operated by Old Abraxis as part of its broader corporate organization rather than as a stand-alone company. Old Abraxis assisted us by providing financing and corporate functions such as human resources, information technology, internal audit, tax and accounting functions. New APP has no obligation to provide assistance to us other than certain interim services. These interim services include, among other things, manufacturing services, information technology services, accounting and finance services and human resources support. Because our business has not recently been operated as an independent company, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement the changes necessary to operate independently or that we will not incur additional costs operating independently that would have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, prior to the separation, our business was able to leverage Old Abraxis’ size, relationships and purchasing power in procuring goods, services and technology (including office supplies, computer software licenses and equipment), travel and all employee benefits plans for which per employee cost was based on number of lives covered. Our separation from Old Abraxis has had a significant impact on the per employee cost for certain coverage such as health care and disability. We are in the process of creating our own, or engaging third parties to provide, systems and business functions to replace many of the systems and business functions Old Abraxis provided to us. We will also need to make significant investments to develop our independent ability to operate without Old Abraxis’ existing operational and administrative infrastructure. These initiatives will be costly to implement, and we may not be successful in implementing these systems and business functions. Our historical financial information may not be representative of our future results as an independent company. The historical financial information we have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent 31 Table of Contents company during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future when we are an independent company. This is primarily because: • our historical and financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided to us by Old Abraxis, which allocations may not reflect the costs we will incur for similar services in the future as an independent company; and • our historical and financial information does not reflect changes that we expect to incur in the future as a result of our separation from Old Abraxis, including changes in the cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of the contributed business as a result of the separation from Old Abraxis and from reduced economies of scale. In addition, we are now responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent public company, including costs related to corporate governance and listed and registered securities. Therefore, our financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance as an independent company. For additional information about our past financial performance and the basis of presentation of our financial statements, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our separation from Old Abraxis may present significant challenges. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in having separated from Old Abraxis. These difficulties include: • preserving customer, supplier and other important relationships; • the potential difficulty in retaining key officers and personnel; and • separating corporate infrastructure, including systems, insurance, accounting, legal, finance, tax and human resources. We anticipate that it generally will take up to 24 months to completely separate from Old Abraxis, with the exception of manufacturing activities which New APP will undertake for us and certain lease arrangements, which will last for a period of four or five years. Our separation from Old Abraxis may not be successfully or cost-effectively completed. The failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The process of separating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this separation process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products or strategies. If our senior management is not able to manage effectively the separation process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the separation process, our business could suffer. Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are now subject. If we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of Old Abraxis. However, we were not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. As a result of the separation, we are now directly subject to the reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over 32 Table of Contents financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing such assessments. These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on our management and administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources. To comply with these requirements, we will need to upgrade our systems, including information technology, implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional legal, accounting and finance staff. If we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. In addition, if we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if the auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on our management’s assessment or on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. Our management will be responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial reporting includes those written policies and procedures that: • pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; • provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States; • provide reasonable assurance that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorization of our management and directors; and • provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We may be required to indemnify New APP and may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from New APP. Under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, we have agreed to indemnify New APP from and after the distribution with respect to all liabilities of Old Abraxis not related to its hospital-based products business and the use by New APP of any trademarks or other source identifiers owned by us. Similarly, New APP has agreed to indemnify us from and after the distribution with respect to all liabilities of Old Abraxis related to its hospital-based products business and the use by us of any trademarks or other source identifiers owned by New APP. Under the terms of the tax allocation agreement, we have agreed to indemnify New APP against all tax liabilities to the extent they relate to the proprietary products business, and New APP has agreed to indemnify us against all liabilities to the extent they relate to the hospital-based products business. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify New APP for any taxes resulting from a failure of the distribution to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code, unless such failure results solely from specified acts of New APP after the distribution. Under the terms of the manufacturing agreement, we have agreed to indemnify New APP from any damages resulting from a third-party claim caused by or alleged to be caused by (i) our failure to perform our obligations under the manufacturing agreement; (ii) any product liability claim arising from the negligence, fraud or intentional misconduct of us or any of our affiliates or any product liability claim arising from our manufacturing obligations (or any failure or deficiency in 33 Table of Contents our manufacturing obligations) under the manufacturing agreement; (iii) any claim that the manufacture, use or sale of Abraxane® or our pipeline products infringes a patent or any other proprietary right of a third party; or (iv) any recall, product liability claim or other third-party claim not arising from the gross negligence or bad faith of, or intentional misconduct or intentional breach of the manufacturing agreement by New APP, by reason of the $100 million limitation of liability described below. We have also agreed to indemnify New APP for liabilities that it becomes subject to as a result of its activities under the manufacturing agreement and for which it is not responsible under the terms of the manufacturing agreement. New APP has agreed to indemnify us from any damages resulting from a third-party claim caused by or alleged to be caused by (i) New APP’s gross negligence, bad faith, intentional misconduct or intentional failure to perform its obligations under the manufacturing agreement; or (ii) any product liability claim arising from the gross negligence or bad faith of, or intentional misconduct or intentional breach of the manufacturing agreement by New APP. New APP generally will not have any liability for monetary damages to us or third parties in connection with the manufacturing agreement for damages in excess of $100 million in the aggregate. There are no time limits on when an indemnification claim must be brought and no other monetary limits on the amount of indemnification that may be provided. These indemnification obligations could be significant. Our ability to satisfy any of these indemnification obligations will depend upon the future financial strength of our company. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify New APP for any substantial obligations. We also cannot assure you that, if New APP becomes obligated to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, New APP will have the ability to satisfy those obligations. Any indemnification payment by us, or any failure by New APP to satisfy its indemnification obligations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We will be dependent upon New APP to manufacture Abraxane® for a term of four or five years, and the manufacture of pharmaceutical products is highly regulated. In connection with the separation and distribution agreement, we entered into a manufacturing agreement with New APP for the manufacture of Abraxane® and our pipeline products whereby New APP agreed to undertake certain of the tasks necessary to manufacture Abraxane® and our pipeline products until December 31, 2011, with this agreement automatically extended by one year if either New APP elects to exercise its option to extend the lease on our Melrose Park manufacturing facility or we elect to exercise our option to extend the lease on New APP’s Grand Island manufacturing facility. Accordingly, we will be dependent upon New APP to manufacture our products. The amount and timing of resources that New APP devotes to the manufacture of our products is not within our direct control. Further, in the event of capacity constraints at the manufacturing facilities, the manufacturing agreement provides that the available capacity will be prorated between us and New APP according to the parties’ then current use of manufacturing capacity at the relevant facilities. Any loss in manufacturing capacity pursuant to these proration provisions could be detrimental to our business and operating results. While the manufacturing agreement allows us to override these proration provisions, we may only do so by paying New APP additional fees under the manufacturing agreement. If we are forced to pay New APP additional fees to retain our capacity rights under the manufacturing agreement, it could be detrimental to our operating results. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements and standards which govern both the manufacture of a particular product and the manufacture of these types of products in general. Problems may arise during their manufacture due to a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to loss of the cost of raw materials and components used and lost revenue. If such problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall costs may also be incurred. Under the terms of the manufacturing agreement, we have the final responsibility for release of the products manufactured pursuant to the manufacturing agreement and will bear all expenses in connection with any recall of products, unless the recall is a result of New APP’s gross negligence, bad faith, intentional misconduct or intentional breach, in which case New APP would bear all costs and expenses related to such product recall, subject to the $100 million limit on liability under the manufacturing agreement. To the extent New APP 34 Table of Contents encounters difficulties or problems with respect to the manufacture of our pharmaceutical products, including Abraxane®, this may be detrimental to our business, operating results and reputation. Risks Related To An Investment In Our Common Stock Our Chief Executive Officer and entities affiliated with him collectively own a significant percentage of our common stock and could exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of the wishes of other stockholders. Our Chief Executive Officer and entities affiliated with him collectively own over 80% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations and sales of assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium in such a transaction. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the market for and trading price of our common stock if investors perceive that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Substantial sales of our common stock could depress the market price of our common stock. All of the shares of our common stock issued in connection with the separation and distribution, other than shares issued to our affiliates, are eligible for immediate resale in the public market. Although shares issued to our affiliates are not immediately freely tradable, we have granted registration rights to the former ABI shareholders, including our Chief Executive Officer. Under the registration rights agreement, the former ABI shareholders will have the right to require us to register all or a portion of the shares of our common stock they received in connection with the separation. In addition, the former ABI shareholders may require us to include their shares in future registration statements that we file and our Chief Executive Officer may require us to register shares for resale on a Form S-3 registration statement. Upon registration, the registered shares generally will be freely tradeable in the public market without restriction. However, in connection with any underwritten offering, the holders of registrable securities will agree to lock up any other shares for up to 90 days and will agree to a limit on the maximum number of shares that can be registered for the account of the holders of registrable securities under so-called “shelf” registration statements. Substantial sales of our shares, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price for our shares. Our Chief Executive Officer and entities affiliated with him own over 80% of our outstanding common stock. In connection with Old Abraxis requesting from the Internal Revenue Service a private letter ruling regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the transactions, our Chief Executive Officer, his wife and certain entities affiliated with him have represented to the Internal Revenue Service that they have no current plan or intention to sell their shares after the separation. Our stock price may be volatile in response to market and other factors. The market price for our common stock may be volatile and subject to price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the following, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results from the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; • announcements of technological innovation or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisition, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 35 Table of Contents • general technological, market or economic trends; • investor perception of our industry or our prospects; • insider selling or buying; • investors entering into short sale contracts; • regulatory developments affecting our industry; and • additions or departures of key personnel. We are not subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could negatively affect your investment. We elected in our certificate of incorporation to not be subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. An “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns (or, in certain cases, within three years prior, did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. Our decision not to be subject to Section 203 will allow, for example, our Chief Executive Officer (who with members of his immediate family and entities affiliated with him own approximately 83% of our common stock) to transfer shares in excess of 15% of our voting stock to a third-party free of the restrictions imposed by Section 203. This may make us more vulnerable to takeovers that are completed without the approval of our board of directors and/or without giving us the ability to prohibit or delay such takeovers as effectively. These provisions could also limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Under U.S. federal bankruptcy laws or comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, you could be required to return all or a portion of the shares received in the distribution. In connection with the separation and distribution, Old Abraxis incurred $1 billion in indebtedness and contributed $700 million of those proceeds to us prior to the separation. If Old Abraxis is insolvent or rendered insolvent as a result of the distribution of our common stock to the holders of Old Abraxis common stock, or if any of Old Abraxis and/or one or more of its subsidiaries that incurs a portion of the indebtedness is insolvent or rendered insolvent either as a result of the incurrence of the indebtedness or the ultimate dividend/transfer of the proceeds of such indebtedness to us, there is a risk that a creditor (or a creditor representative) of Old Abraxis could bring fraudulent transfer claims to recover all or a portion of our common stock received in the separation and distribution and that the persons receiving such distributions would be required to return all or a portion of such distributions if such claims were successful. It was a condition to the completion of the transactions that Old Abraxis received opinions of a valuation firm with respect to Old Abraxis and its subsidiaries’ solvency at the time it declared the distributions and at the time the distributions were made. If the holding company merger that was completed in connection with the separation does not qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, then Old Abraxis and Old Abraxis stockholders may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes, and if the distribution does not constitute a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then New APP and New APP stockholders may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes. The obligations of the parties to effect the separation was conditioned upon the receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that (i) the holding company merger that was completed in connection with the separation qualified as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(F) of the Internal Revenue 36 Table of Contents Code and (ii) the contribution of New Abraxis, LLC to us, which we refer to as the “proprietary contribution,” the cash contribution and the distribution qualified as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code and the distribution qualified for nonrecognition treatment under Sections 355(a) and 361(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. Old Abraxis received the private letter ruling on October 5, 2007. The private letter ruling, however, did not address two requirements under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code on which the Internal Revenue Service will not rule (namely, that the distribution (a) was motivated, in whole or substantial part, by one or more corporate business purposes and (b) was not being used principally as a device for the distribution of the earnings and profits of New APP, New Abraxis or both). Thus, the obligations of the parties to effect the proprietary contribution, the cash contribution and the distribution also was conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, counsel to Old Abraxis, to the effect that these two requirements should be satisfied. The private letter ruling the opinion of counsel was based, in part, on assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by, among others, Old Abraxis, Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife, and certain Old Abraxis stockholders, as requested by the Internal Revenue Service or counsel, which, if incorrect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by the Internal Revenue Service and counsel. The private letter ruling did not address certain material legal issues that could affect its conclusions (including whether the distribution was motivated, in whole or substantial part, by one or more corporate business purposes, whether the distribution was being used principally as a device for the distribution of the earnings and profits of New APP, New Abraxis or both, and whether the distribution and any acquisition or acquisitions are part of a plan or series of related transactions under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code), and reserved the right of the Internal Revenue Service to raise such issues upon a subsequent audit. Opinions of counsel neither bind the Internal Revenue Service or any court, nor preclude the Internal Revenue Service from adopting a contrary position. On the distribution date, Old Abraxis and New Abraxis, LLC effected a holding company merger. In the holding company merger, Old Abraxis merged with and into New Abraxis, LLC. If the holding company merger does not qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, each Old Abraxis stockholder who received New APP common stock in exchange for Old Abraxis common stock will recognize taxable gain or loss equal to the difference between the fair market value of the New APP common stock received and such stockholder’s basis in the Old Abraxis common stock exchanged therefor, and Old Abraxis will recognize taxable gain equal to the fair market value of its assets over their aggregate adjusted basis. If the distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, New APP would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the New Abraxis common stock distributed to the Old Abraxis stockholders over New APP’s tax basis in the New Abraxis common stock. In addition, each Old Abraxis stockholder who received New Abraxis common stock in the distribution would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the New Abraxis common stock received. In the event that New APP recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the distribution because the distribution did not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the taxable gain recognized by New APP would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New APP. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New APP would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Abraxis would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of the tax allocation agreement among New APP, New APP LLC, New Abraxis and New Abraxis, LLC, New Abraxis will generally be required to indemnify New APP against any such taxes unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for an act of New APP or its affiliates, subject to specified exceptions. New Abraxis’ or New APP’s respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to the tax allocation agreement could have a material adverse effect on New APP and/or New Abraxis. There can be no assurance that New APP would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if New APP was determined to be responsible for these taxes. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire either party. 37 Table of Contents The distribution may be taxable to New APP and New Abraxis if there is an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of New APP or New Abraxis. Even if the distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, the distribution of New Abraxis common stock to Old Abraxis stockholders would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New APP (but not New APP stockholders) if there is an acquisition of stock of New Abraxis or New APP as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of New Abraxis or New APP. The process for determining whether a prohibited 50% or greater change in control has occurred under these rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If New Abraxis or New APP engages in a transaction involving the issuance or disposition or shares, or that otherwise creates a significant change in ownership, New APP would recognize taxable gain if such issuance, disposition or other change in ownership results in an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of New Abraxis or New APP. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our stock and the stock of New APP will be held by or on behalf of a single stockholder, that stockholder will have the ability to cause or permit a prohibited change in the ownership of New APP or of New Abraxis to occur, which would also cause New APP to recognize a taxable gain under these rules. The private letter ruling did not address whether the distribution and any acquisition or acquisitions are part of a plan or series of related transactions under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. In the event that New APP recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the distribution because of an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of New Abraxis or New APP as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution, the taxable gain recognized by New APP would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New APP. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New APP would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Abraxis would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of the tax allocation agreement among New APP, New APP LLC, New Abraxis and New Abraxis LLC, New Abraxis will generally be required to indemnify New APP against any such taxes unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for an act of New APP or its affiliates, subject to specified exceptions. New Abraxis’ or New APP’s respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to the tax allocation agreement could have a material adverse effect on New APP and/or New Abraxis. There can be no assurance that New APP would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if New APP was determined to be responsible for these taxes. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire either party. Actions taken by our Chief Executive Officer (or entities affiliated with him) could adversely affect the tax-free nature of the distribution. Sales of New Abraxis common stock or New APP common stock by Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife, or entities affiliated with Dr. Soon-Shiong or one or more members of his family after completion of the distribution may adversely affect the tax-free nature of the distribution. Sales of New Abraxis common stock or New APP common stock by Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife, or entities affiliated with Dr. Soon-Shiong or one or more members of his family after completion of the distribution might be considered evidence that the distribution was used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits of New APP, New Abraxis or both, particularly if it were determined that the selling stockholder had an intent to effect such sale at the time of the distribution. The obligation of the parties to effect the separation and related transactions were conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP to the effect that, among other requirements, the distribution is not being used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits of New APP, New Abraxis or both. If sales of New Abraxis common stock or New APP common stock by Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife, or entities affiliated with Dr. Soon-Shiong or one or more members of his family occur after completion of the distribution, the conclusions reached in the opinion may not apply. Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife and the entities that hold shares of Old 38 Table of Contents Abraxis common stock on behalf of Dr. Soon-Shiong or one or more members of his immediate family have provided a representation to the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the private letter ruling that they have no plan or intention to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the shares of New Abraxis common stock and New APP common stock they will hold after the distribution. Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife and such entities provided similar representations to counsel in connection with counsel’s opinion. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully asserted that the distribution was used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits of New APP, New Abraxis or both, the distribution would not qualify as a tax-free distribution, and thus would be taxable to both New APP and the New APP stockholders (as a result of which New Abraxis would be required to indemnify New APP to the extent required under the tax allocation agreement). Furthermore, sales of New Abraxis common stock or New APP common stock by Dr. Soon-Shiong, his wife, or entities affiliated with Dr. Soon-Shiong or one or more members of his family after completion of the distribution could cause a prohibited change in the ownership of New Abraxis or New APP to occur within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, which would cause New APP to recognize a taxable gain. In the event that New APP recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the distribution because the distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code or because of an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of New Abraxis or New APP as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, the taxable gain recognized by New APP would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New APP. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New APP would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Abraxis would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of the tax allocation agreement among New APP, New APP LLC, New Abraxis and New Abraxis LLC, New Abraxis will generally be required to indemnify New APP against any such taxes unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for an act of New APP or its affiliates, subject to specified exceptions. New Abraxis’s or New APP’s respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to the tax allocation agreement could have a material adverse effect on New APP and/or New Abraxis. There can be no assurance that New APP would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if New APP was determined to be responsible for these taxes. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire either party. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 