Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO LC AND THE LC PLATFORM We have a limited operating history. As an online company in the early stages of development, we face increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. To be successful, the number of borrowers and investors and the volume of loans facilitated through our platform will need to increase, which will require us to increase our facilities, personnel and infrastructure to accommodate the greater servicing obligations and demands on our platform. Our platform is dependent upon our website to maintain current listings and transactions in the loans and Notes. We must constantly add new hardware and update our software and website, expand our customer support services and retain an appropriate number of employees to maintain the operations of our platform, as well as to satisfy our servicing obligations on the Loans and make payments on the Notes. If we are unable to increase the capacity of our platform and maintain the necessary infrastructure, you may experience delays in receipt of payments on the Notes and periodic downtime of our systems. If we are unable to sustain our positive growth and become insolvent or bankrupt, you may lose your investment. As of December 31, 2013, our accumulated deficit was $50.3 million and our total stockholders’ equity was $68.1 million. Prior to the quarter ended March 31, 2013, we incurred net losses. For the year ended December 31, 2013 we had net income of $7.3 million. We believe we will continue to generate positive operating cash flows. However, if our assumptions regarding our growth and operating plan are incorrect, we may need to slow our investment spending and/or find new funding to continue to operate our business. We believe that such funding would be available to us on terms that we would find acceptable. Any delay in securing, or failing to secure, any necessary funding could result in delays and operational slowdowns that could adversely affect the regularity of our processing payments, the cash flows on your investment and ultimately the value of your investment. If we are unable to increase transaction volumes, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. To grow, we must continue to increase transaction volumes on our platform by attracting a large number of borrowers and investors in a cost-effective manner, many of whom have not previously participated in an online marketplace. We have experienced a high number of inquiries from potential borrowers who do not meet our criteria for submitting a loan request. We have also experienced, from time to time, loan requests for amounts that exceed the aggregate amount of investor purchase commitments. If there are not sufficient qualified loan requests, investors may be unable to deploy their capital in a timely or efficient manner. If there are not sufficient investor purchase commitments, borrowers may be unable to obtain funding for their Loans and become discouraged from using our platform for their borrowing needs. If we are not able to attract qualified borrowers and sufficient investor purchase commitments, we will not be able to increase our transaction volumes. Additionally, we rely on a variety of methods to drive traffic to our website. If we are unable to use any of our current or future marketing initiatives or the cost of these initiatives were to significantly increase, we may not be able to attract new borrowers and investors in a cost-effective manner and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be affected adversely, which may impair our ability to maintain our platform. The market in which we participate is competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The consumer and small business lending market is competitive and rapidly changing. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase volume on our platform. Our principal competitors include major banking institutions, credit unions, credit card issuers and other consumer finance companies, as well as other online lending platforms. Competition could result in reduced volumes, reduced fees or the failure of our online lending platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. In addition, in the future we may experience new competition from more established internet companies who possess large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels. If any of these companies or any major financial institution decided to enter the online lending business, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our operating results could be harmed. Most of our current or potential competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their platforms and distribution channels. Our potential competitors may also have longer operating histories, more extensive customer bases, greater brand recognition and broader customer relationships than we have. These competitors may be better able to develop new products, to respond quickly to new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. Our industry is driven by constant innovation. If we are unable to compete with such companies and meet the need for innovation, the demand for our platform could stagnate or substantially decline. 33 Table of Contents If we fail to promote and maintain our brand in a cost-effective manner, we may lose market share and our revenue may decrease. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our online financial community and attracting new borrowers and investors. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and the member experience on our platform. Historically, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expense, and it is likely that our future marketing efforts will require us to incur significant additional expenses. These brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues and, even if they do, any revenue increases may not offset the expenses we incur to promote our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may lose our existing members to our competitors or be unable to attract new borrowers and investors, which would cause our revenue to decrease and may impair our ability to maintain our platform. Our arrangements for backup servicing are limited. If we fail to maintain operations, you will experience a delay and increased cost in respect of your expected principal and interest payments on the Notes, and we may be unable to collect and process repayments from borrowers. We have made arrangements for only limited backup servicing. If our platform were to fail or we became insolvent, we would attempt to transfer our Loan servicing obligations to our third party back-up servicer. There can be no assurance that this back-up servicer will be able to adequately perform the servicing of the outstanding Loan. If this back-up servicer assumes the servicing of the Loan, the back-up servicer will impose additional servicing fees, reducing the amounts available for payments on the Notes. Additionally, transferring these servicing obligations to our back-up servicer may result in delays in the processing and recovery of information with respect to amounts owed on the Loan or, if our platform becomes inoperable, may prevent us from servicing the Loan and making principal and interest payments on the Notes. If our back-up servicer is not able to service the Loan effectively, investors’ ability to receive principal and interest payments on their Notes may be substantially impaired. If we were to become subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, the rights of the holders of the Notes could be uncertain, and payments on the Notes may be limited and suspended or stopped. The Notes are unsecured and holders of the Notes do not have a security interest in the corresponding Loans or the proceeds of those corresponding Loans. The recovery, if any, of a holder on a Note may be substantially delayed and substantially less than the principal and interest due and to become due on the Note. Even funds held by us in accounts “in trust for” the holders of Notes may potentially be at risk. If we were to become subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, the recovery, if any, of a holder of a Note may be substantially delayed in time and may be substantially less in amount than the principal and interest due and to become due on the Note. A bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us may cause delays in borrower payments. Borrowers may delay payments to us on account of Loans because of the uncertainties occasioned by a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, even if the borrowers have no legal right to do so, and such delay would reduce, at least for a time, the funds that might otherwise be available to pay the Notes corresponding to those Loans. A bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us may cause delays in payments on Notes. The commencement of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding may, as a matter of law, prevent us from making regular payments on the Notes, even if the funds to make such payments are available. Because a bankruptcy or similar proceeding may take months or years to complete, the suspension of payment may effectively reduce the value of any recovery that a holder of a Note may receive (and no such recovery can be assured) by the time any recovery is available. Interest accruing upon and following a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us may not be paid. In bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, interest accruing on the Notes during the preceding may not be part of the allowed claim of a holder of a Note. If the holder of a Note receives a recovery on the Note (and no such recovery can be assured), any such recovery may be based on, and limited to, the claim of the holder of the Note for principal and for interest accrued up to the date of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding, but not thereafter. Because a bankruptcy or similar proceeding may take months or years to complete, a claim based on principal and on interest only up to the start of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding may be substantially less than a claim based on principal and on interest through the end of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us there may be uncertainty regarding whether a holder of a Note has any priority right to payment from the corresponding Loan. The Notes are unsecured and holders of the Notes do not have a security interest in the corresponding Loan or the proceeds of the corresponding Loan. Accordingly, the holder of a Note may be required to share the proceeds of the corresponding Loan with any other creditor of ours that has rights in those proceeds. If such sharing of proceeds is deemed appropriate, those proceeds that are either held by us in the clearing account at the time of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding of ours, or not yet received by us from borrowers at the time of the commencement of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding, may be at greater risk than those proceeds that are already held by us in the “in trust for,” or ITF, account at the time of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding. To the extent that proceeds of the corresponding Loan would be shared with other creditors of ours, any secured or priority rights of such other creditors may cause the proceeds to be distributed to such other creditors before, or ratably with, any distribution made to you on your Note. 34 Table of Contents In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, there may be uncertainty regarding whether a holder of a Note has any right of payment from assets of ours other than the corresponding Loan. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, it is possible that a Note could be deemed to have a right of payment only from proceeds of the corresponding Loan and not from any other assets of us, in which case the holder of the Note may not be entitled to share the proceeds of such other assets of us with other creditors of ours, whether or not, as described above, such other creditors would be entitled to share in the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the Note. Alternatively, it is possible that a Note could be deemed to have a right of payment from both the Loan corresponding to the Note and from some or all other assets of ours, for example, based upon the automatic acceleration of the principal obligations on the Note upon the commencement of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, in which case the holder of the Note may be entitled to share the proceeds of such other assets of ours with other creditors of us, whether or not, as described above, such other creditors would be entitled to share in the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the Note. To the extent that proceeds of such other assets would be shared with other creditors of ours, any secured or priority rights of such other creditors may cause the proceeds to be distributed to such other creditors before, or ratably with, any distribution made to you on your Note. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, there may be uncertainty regarding the rights of a holder of a Note, if any, to payment from funds in the clearing account. If a borrower has paid us on a Loan corresponding to a Note before a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us is commenced, and those funds are held in the clearing account and have not been used by us to make payments on the Note as of the date the bankruptcy or similar proceeding is commenced, there can be no assurance that we will or will be able to use such funds to make payments on the Note. Other creditors of ours may be deemed to have, or actually have, rights to such funds that are equal to or greater than the rights of the holder of the Note. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, there may be uncertainty regarding the rights of a holder of a Note, if any, to access funds in the ITF Account. If a borrower has paid us on a Loan corresponding to a Note before a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us is commenced, and those funds have been used by us to make payments on the Note prior to the date the bankruptcy or similar proceeding is commenced, but the payments on the Note continue to be held by us in an ITF Account, there can be no assurance that the holder of the Note will have immediate access to the funds constituting the payment or that the funds constituting the payment will ultimately be released to the holder of the Note. While the Trust Agreement states that funds in the ITF Account are trust property and are not intended to be property of ours or subject to claims of our creditors generally, there can be no assurance that, if the matter were to be litigated, such litigation would not delay or prevent the holder of a Note from accessing the portion of those funds in which the holder has an interest. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, there may be uncertainty regarding the rights of a holder of a Note, if any, to the return of the purchase price of a Note if the corresponding Loan has not been funded. If the purchase price of a Note is paid to us and a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us is commenced, the holder of the Note may not be able to obtain a return of the funds constituting the purchase price, even if the Loan corresponding to the Note has not been funded as of the date that the bankruptcy or similar proceeding is commenced and even if the funds are held by us in the ITF Account. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, the holder of a Note may be delayed or prevented from enforcing our repurchase obligations in cases of confirmed identity fraud. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, any right of a holder of Note to require us to repurchase the Note as a result of a confirmed identity fraud incident may not be specifically enforced, and such holder’s claim for such repurchase may be treated less favorably than a general unsecured obligation of ours as described and subject to the limitations in this “Risks Related to LC and the LC Platform – If we were to become subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding” section. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, the implementation of back-up servicing arrangements may be delayed or prevented. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, our ability to transfer servicing obligations to our back-up servicer may be limited and subject to the approval of the bankruptcy court or other presiding authority. The bankruptcy process may delay or prevent the implementation of back-up servicing, which may impair the collection of Loan payments to the detriment of the Notes. If the security of our members’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, your confidential information may be stolen, our reputation may be harmed, and we may be exposed to liability. Our platform stores our borrowers’ and investors’ bank information and other personally-identifiable sensitive data. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could cause your confidential information to be stolen and used for criminal purposes. Security breaches or unauthorized access to confidential information could also expose us to liability related to the loss of the information, time-consuming and expensive litigation and negative publicity. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party or disaffected employee obtains unauthorized access to any of our members’ data, our relationships with our members will be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability. 35 Table of Contents Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach are costly to implement and often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our members to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, and we could lose members. Our ability to service Loans or maintain accurate accounts may be adversely affected by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. The highly automated nature of our platform may make it an attractive target and potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. If a “hacker” were able to infiltrate our platform, you would be subject to an increased risk of fraud or identity theft, and may experience losses on, or delays in the recoupment of amounts owed on, a fraudulently induced purchase of a Note or Certificates. Additionally, if a hacker were able to access our secure files, he or she might be able to gain access to your personal information. While we have taken steps to prevent such activity from affecting our platform, if we are unable to prevent such activity, the value in the Notes and our ability to fulfill our servicing obligations and to maintain our platform would be adversely affected. Any significant disruption in service on our website or in our computer systems, including events beyond our control, could prevent us from processing or posting payments on the loans or the Notes, reduce the attractiveness of our platform and result in a loss of members. If a catastrophic event resulted in a platform outage and physical data loss, our ability to perform our servicing obligations would be materially and adversely affected. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology and our underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of customer service, reputation and ability to attract new borrowers and investors and retain existing members. Our system hardware is hosted in a hosting facility located in Las Vegas, Nevada, owned and operated by SwitchNet. We also maintain a real time backup system located in Santa Clara, CA owned and operated by SAVVIS. SwitchNet does not guarantee that our members’ access to our website will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on SwitchNet’s ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, air quality, temperature, humidity and other environmental concerns, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. If our arrangement with SwitchNet is terminated, or there is a lapse of service or damage to SwitchNet facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of SwitchNet other third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with our members and our reputation. Additionally, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. Our disaster recovery plan has not been tested under actual disaster conditions, and we may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage at a SwitchNet facility. These factors could prevent us from processing or posting payments on the Loans or the Notes, damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees’ attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause members to abandon our platform, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees whom we need to support our business. Competition for highly skilled technical and financial personnel is extremely intense. We may not be able to hire and retain these personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring and training their replacements and the quality of our services and our ability to serve our members could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. Our growth could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Our growth in headcount and operations since our inception has placed, and will continue to place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial reporting infrastructure. 36 Table of Contents Our success will depend in part on the ability of our senior management to manage the growth we achieve effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. If our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and update our reporting procedures and systems. The addition of new employees and the system development that we anticipate will be necessary to manage our growth will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we will be unable to execute our business plan. We may evaluate, and potentially consummate, acquisitions, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, and adversely affect our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we may, from time to time, evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, combinations, acquisitions or alliances, to enhance our existing businesses or develop new products and services. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions, and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations if consummated. If we are able to identify an appropriate business opportunity, we may not be able to successfully consummate the transaction, and even if we do consummate such a transaction, we may be unable to obtain the benefits or avoid the difficulties and risks of such transaction. Any future acquisition will involve risks commonly encountered in business relationships, including: • the difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, systems, technologies, products and services of the acquired business; • the technologies, products or businesses that we acquire may not achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, benefits or productivity; • the difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel; • the diversion of management’s time and resources away from our normal daily operations; • the difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into product and service offerings; • the difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations; • the difficulties in retaining relationships with customers, employees and suppliers of the acquired business; • the risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • regulatory risks, including remaining in good standing with existing regulatory bodies, receiving any necessary pre-closing or post-closing approvals, as well as being subject to new regulators with oversight over an acquired business; • potential disruptions to our ongoing businesses; and • unexpected costs and unknown risks and liabilities associated with the acquisition. We cannot assure you that we will make any acquisitions or that any future acquisitions will be successful, will assist us in the accomplishment of our or our business strategy, or will generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs and other adverse effects or will otherwise result in receiving the intended benefits of the acquisition. In addition, we cannot assure you that any future acquisition of new businesses or technology will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced products and services, or that any new or enhanced products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable. We may issue debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete an acquisition, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition and thus negatively impact our operations. Although we have no current commitments to issue any securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may incur substantial debt to complete an acquisition. The incurrence of debt could have a variety of negative effects, including: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an acquisition are insufficient to repay debt obligations; • acceleration of obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach any covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; • diverting a substantial portion of cash flow to pay principal and interest on such debt, which would reduce the funds available for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; and • creating potential limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; any of which could adversely affect our operations or financial condition. 37 Table of Contents If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, our Founder/Chief Executive Officer is critical to the management of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction. The loss of the services of Mr. Laplanche or other executive officers or key personnel and the process to replace any of our key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. It may be difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our ability to maintain our platform and arrange Loans depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology effectively, however, which would allow competitors to duplicate our products and adversely affect our ability to compete with them. A third party may attempt to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without our consent. In addition, our platform may infringe upon claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from such other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. Furthermore, our technology may become obsolete, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully develop, obtain or use new technologies to adapt our platform to compete with other person-to-person lending platforms as they develop. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology from intellectual property challenges, or if the platform becomes obsolete, our ability to maintain the platform, arrange Loans or perform our servicing obligations on the Loans could be adversely affected. Purchasers of Notes will have no control over us and will not be able to influence our corporate matters. The Notes offered through our platform grant no equity interest in LC to the purchaser nor grant the purchaser the ability to vote on or influence our corporate decisions. As a result, our stockholders will continue to exercise 100% voting control over all our corporate matters, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. Neither the Notes nor the related indenture restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Any additional debt we incur may increase our risk of bankruptcy, which could impair your ability to receive the principal and interest payments you expect to receive on your Notes. If we incur additional debt after the Notes are issued, it may adversely affect our creditworthiness generally, and could result in the financial distress, insolvency, or bankruptcy of LC. As discussed above, the financial distress, insolvency or bankruptcy of LC could impair your ability to receive the principal and interest payments you expect to receive on your Notes. RISKS RELATING TO THE NOTES, AND THE CORRESPONDING LOANS ON WHICH THE NOTES ARE DEPENDENT You may lose some or all of your initial purchase price for the Notes because the Notes are highly risky and speculative. Only investors who can bear the loss of their entire purchase price should purchase. Notes are highly risky and speculative because payments on Notes depend entirely on payments to us of unsecured obligations of individual borrowers and contemporaneous payments on the Notes, which are special, limited obligations of LC. Notes are suitable purchases only for investors of adequate financial means. If you cannot afford to lose all of the money you plan to invest in Notes, you should not purchase Notes. Payments on each Note depend entirely on the payments, if any, we receive on the corresponding Loan related to that Note. If a borrower fails to make any payments on the corresponding Loan related to your Note, you will not receive any payments on your Note. We will make payments pro rata on a series of Notes, net of our service charge, only if we receive the borrower’s payments on the corresponding Loan and such payments clear and therefore become available for distribution to investors. We will not pay to investors any unsuccessful payment fees, check processing fees, collection fees we or our third-party collection agency charge. If we do not receive payments on the corresponding Loan related to your Note, you will not be entitled to any payments under the terms of the Notes, and you will not receive any payments. The failure of a borrower to repay a Loan is not an event of default under the terms of the Notes. 38 Table of Contents The Notes are special, limited obligations of ours only, and the Notes are not secured by any collateral or guaranteed or insured by any third party. The Notes will not represent an obligation of borrowers or any other party except by us, and are special, limited obligations of ours. The Notes are not secured by any collateral and are not guaranteed or insured by any governmental agency or instrumentality or any third party. Loans are unsecured obligations and as such are not backed by any collateral or guaranteed nor are they insured by any third party, and you must rely on us and our designated third-party collection agency to pursue collection against any borrower. Loans are unsecured obligations of borrowers. They are not secured by any collateral, not guaranteed or insured by any third party and not backed by any governmental authority in any way. We and our designated third-party collection agency will, therefore, be limited in our ability to collect Loans. Moreover, unsecured Loans are obligations of borrowers to us as assignee of the Loan’s promissory note from WebBank, or obligations of borrowers to the Trust as assignee of the Loan’s promissory note from us. Loans are not obligations to holders of Notes. Holders of Notes will have no recourse against borrowers and no ability to pursue borrowers to collect payments under Loans. Holders of Notes may look only to us and the Trust, respectively, for payment of the Notes, and our obligation to pay the Notes is limited as described in this document. Furthermore, if a borrower fails to make any payments on the Loan corresponding to a Note, the holder of that Note will not receive any payments on that Note. The holder of that Note will not be able to obtain the identity of the borrower in order to contact the borrower about the defaulted Loan. If payments on the corresponding Loan become overdue, it is likely you will not receive the full principal and interest payments that you expect due to collection fees and other costs, and you may not recover any of your original purchase price. If the borrower fails to make a required payment on a Loan within 30 days of the due date, we will pursue reasonable collection efforts in respect of the Loan. We may handle collection efforts in respect of a delinquent Loan ourselves, or we may refer a delinquent Loan to a collection agency on the 31st day of its delinquency. These efforts will be considered reasonable collection efforts. If we refer a Loan to a collection agency, we will have no other obligation to attempt to collect on that delinquent Loan. If payment amounts on a delinquent Loan are received from a borrower more than 30 days after their due date, then we, or, if we have referred the delinquent Loan to an outside collection agency, that collection agency, will retain a percentage of any funds recovered from such borrower as a service fee before any principal or interest becomes payable to you from recovered amounts in respect of Notes related to the corresponding Loan. We or the collection agency may be unable to recover some or all of the unpaid balance of a non-performing Loan. You must rely on the collection efforts from us and the designated collection agency, and you are not permitted to attempt to collect payments on the Loan in any manner. Borrowers may not view or treat their obligations to us as having the same significance as loans from traditional lending sources, such as bank loans and borrower Loans may have a higher risk of default than loans of borrowers with similar credit scores to other lenders. The investment return on the Notes depends on borrowers fulfilling their payment obligations in a timely and complete manner under the corresponding Loan. Borrowers may not view our lending obligations facilitated through our platform as having the same significance as other credit obligations arising under more traditional circumstances, such as loans from banks or other commercial financial institutions. If a borrower neglects his or her payment obligations on a Loan upon which payment of the corresponding Note is dependent or chooses not to repay his or her borrower Loan entirely, you may not be able to recover any portion of your investment in a Note. Our Public Credit Policy loan grading algorithm is based upon historical credit performance of certain populations and as a result the actual performance of a Loan may not be consistent within or across loan grades and may result in an unanticipated loss of capital. Our proprietary pricing algorithm for Public Policy Loans is based primarily upon the historical loan performance of actual borrowers that met the requirements of the algorithm, the assumed performance of applicants that would have been approved under the current algorithm but were declined by prior methodologies, and the exclusion of borrowers that were approved under prior methodologies but would have been declined under the new algorithm, in addition to other factors and assumptions. Because the algorithm is based upon these assumed performances and the assumptions of management which may change over time as the available data grows and our analysis continues to develop, the actual performance of a graded loan may differ materially versus previously issued, similarly graded loans or other grades and this may result in a greater loss of your investment capital than anticipated. 39 Table of Contents Credit Information that we receive about a borrower may be inaccurate or may not accurately reflect the borrower’s creditworthiness, which may cause you to lose part or all of the purchase price you pay for a Note. We obtain borrower credit information from consumer reporting agencies, such as TransUnion, Experian or Equifax, and assign one of 35 loan grades to Public Policy Loan requests, from A1 through G5, based on the reported credit score, other information reported by the consumer reporting agencies and the requested loan amount. A credit score or loan grade assigned to a borrower may not reflect that borrower’s actual creditworthiness because the credit score may be based on outdated, incomplete or inaccurate consumer reporting data, and we do not verify the information obtained from the borrower’s credit report. Additionally, there is a risk that, following the date of the credit report that we obtain and review, a borrower may have: • become delinquent in the payment of an outstanding obligation; • default on a pre-existing debt obligation; • take on additional debt; or • sustain other adverse financial events. Moreover, investors do not, and will not, have access to consolidated financial statements of borrowers, or to other detailed financial information about borrowers. Information supplied by borrowers may be inaccurate or intentionally false and should generally not be relied upon. Borrowers supply a variety of information that is included in the borrower loan listings on our website and in the posting reports and sales reports we file with the SEC. Other than as described below, we do not verify this information, and it may be inaccurate or incomplete. For example, we do not verify a borrower’s stated tenure, job title, home ownership status or intention for the use of loan proceeds, and the information borrower’s supply may be inaccurate or intentionally false. Unless we have specifically indicated otherwise in a loan listing, we do not verify a borrower’s stated income. For example, we do not verify borrower paystubs, IRS Forms W-2, federal or state income tax returns, bank and savings account balances, retirement account balances, letters from employers, home ownership or rental records, car ownership records or any records related to past bankruptcy and legal proceedings. In the limited cases in which we have selected borrowers for income or employment verification, for the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 58.6% of requested borrowers provided us with satisfactory responses to verify their income or employment; approximately 9.6% of requested borrowers withdrew their applications for Loans, and approximately 30.5% of requested borrowers either failed to respond to our request in full or provided information that failed to verify their stated information, and we therefore removed those borrowers’ Loan postings. The identity of borrowers is not revealed to investors, and investors also have no ability to obtain or verify borrower information either before or after they purchase a Note. Potential investors may only communicate with borrowers through our website postings, and then only on an anonymous basis. While we may monitor website posting for appropriate content, we do not verify any information in the postings nor do we respond to requests from investor or borrowers in any posting and any response to the contrary should not be seen as accurate. If you rely on false, misleading or unverified information supplied by borrowers in deciding to purchase Notes, you may lose part or the entire purchase price you pay for a Note. Loan posting and borrower information available on our website will be statements made in connection with the purchase and sale of securities, and therefore subject to Rule 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Loan posting and borrower information filed in prospectus supplements will be subject to the liability provisions of the Securities Act. However, in each event, we are only providing information that was submitted to us by the borrower. In this document, we advise potential investors as to the limitations on the reliability of this information, and an investor’s recourse in the event this information is false will be extremely limited. Consequently, investors should rely on loan grade, which we determine based on third-party credit report information, and the size of the loan request, and should not rely on unverified information provided by borrowers. You should not assume that a Note is appropriate for you as an investment vehicle just because it corresponds to a Loan listed on our platform or is included in a portfolio built based upon your investment criteria through any of the portfolio tools. While we take precautions to prevent borrower identity fraud, it is possible that identity fraud may still occur and adversely affect your ability to receive the principal and interest payments that you expect to receive on Notes. We use identity checks with a third-party provider to verify each borrower’s identity and credit history. Notwithstanding our efforts, there is a risk that identity fraud may occur without our detecting it, and a Loan obtained by identity fraud may simply default. While we will repurchase Notes in limited identity fraud circumstances involving the corresponding Loan, we are not otherwise obligated to repurchase a Note from you for any other reason. From October 2008, when we commenced the issuance of Notes, through December 31, 2013, we had repurchased Notes for a total of $0.5 million relating to fifty one corresponding Loans in which identity fraud occurred. If we repurchase a Note based on identity fraud involving the corresponding Loan, you will only receive an amount equal to the outstanding principal balance of the Note. 40 Table of Contents We have the exclusive right to investigate claims of identity theft and determine, in our sole discretion, whether verifiable identity theft has occurred. As we are the sole entity with the ability to investigate and determine verifiable identity theft, which triggers our repurchase obligation, a conflict of interest exists as the denial of a claim under our identity theft guarantee would save us from the repurchase obligation. Our performance data about borrower performance on our Public Policy Loans is just over six years old. Default and charge-off rates on Loans may increase. Due to our limited operational and origination history, we have limited historical performance data regarding borrower performance on Public Policy Loans, and we do not yet know what the long-term loss experience may be. As of December 31, 2013, for all Loans, our default and charged-off rate was 3.29% of the principal balance of loans. These default and charge-off rates may increase in the future. In addition, as we do not have significant experience in the performance of five-year Public Policy Loans, the future default rates on these loan types is uncertain and may exceed our current expectations. As actual loss experience increases on our platform, we may change how loan interest rates are set, and investors who have purchased Notes prior to any such changes will not benefit from these changes. Default rates on loans may increase as a result of economic conditions beyond our control and beyond the control of borrowers. Loan default rates may be significantly affected by economic downturns or general economic conditions beyond our control and beyond the control of individual borrowers. In particular, default rates on Public Policy Loans on which the Notes are dependent may increase due to factors such as prevailing interest rates, the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence, residential real estate values, the value of the U.S. dollar, energy prices, changes in consumer spending, the number of personal bankruptcies, disruptions in the credit markets and other factors. The significant downturn in the United States economy that occurred in the past several years caused default rates on consumer loans to increase, and a similar downturn in the future will likely result in increased default rates. If you decide to invest through the platform and concentrate your investment in a single Note (or a small number of Notes), your entire return will be highly dependent on the performance of a single loan. Loans facilitated through our platform have a wide range of credit grades, and we expect that some borrowers at all credit grades will default on their loan. If you decide to invest through the platform and concentrate your investment in a single Note (or a small number of Notes) your entire return will depend on the performance of that single Loan (or that concentrated small number of Notes). For example, if you plan to purchase $100 of Notes, and choose to invest the entire $100 in a single Note instead of in four $25 Notes corresponding to the loan of four different borrowers, you would lose your entire $100 investment if that single borrower defaulted. Failing to diversify your investment increases the risk of losing your entire investment due to a single borrower’s default, or a small number of borrower defaults. Diversification, however, will not eliminate the risk that you may lose some, or all, of the expected principal and interest payments on the Notes. The Public Policy Loan on which the Notes are dependent do not restrict borrowers from incurring additional unsecured or secured debt, nor do they impose any financial restrictions on borrowers during the term of the Public Policy Loan, which may increase the likelihood that a borrower may default on their loan. All Public Policy Loans are credit obligations of individual borrowers. If a borrower incurs additional debt after obtaining a Loan through our platform, that additional debt may adversely affect the borrower’s creditworthiness generally, and could result in the financial distress, insolvency, or bankruptcy of the borrower. This circumstance could ultimately impair the ability of that borrower to make payments on the borrower’s loan and your ability to receive the principal and interest payments that you expect to receive on Notes dependent on those Public Policy Loans. To the extent that the borrower has or incurs other indebtedness and cannot pay all of its indebtedness, the borrower may choose to make payments to other creditors, rather than to us. As to these Public Policy Loans, to the extent borrowers incur other indebtedness that is secured, such as mortgage, home equity or auto loans, the ability of the secured creditors to exercise remedies against the assets of the borrower may impair the borrower’s ability to repay the loan on which your Note is dependent for payment, or it may impair our ability to collect on the Loan if it goes unpaid. Since the Public Policy Loans are unsecured, borrowers may choose to repay obligations under other indebtedness before repaying loans facilitated through our platform because the borrowers have no collateral at risk. An investor will not be made aware of any additional debt incurred by a borrower, or whether such debt is secured. Loans do not contain any cross-default or similar provisions. If borrowers default on their debt obligations other than the Loan, the ability to collect on Loans on which the Notes are dependent may be substantially impaired. Loan documents do not contain cross-default provisions. A cross-default provision makes a default under certain debt of a borrower an automatic default on other debt of that borrower. The effect of this can be to allow other creditors to move more quickly to claim any assets of the borrower. Because the Loans do not contain cross-default provisions, a Loan will not be placed automatically in default upon that borrower’s default on any of the borrower’s other debt obligations, unless there are relevant independent grounds for a default on the loan. 41 Table of Contents In addition, the Loan will not be referred to a third-party collection agency for collection because of a borrower’s default on debt obligations other than the Loan. If a borrower defaults on debt obligations owed to a third party and continues to satisfy payment obligations under the Loan, the third party may seize the borrower’s assets or pursue other legal action against the borrower before the borrower defaults on the Loan. Payments on Notes may be substantially reduced if the borrower subsequently defaults on the loan and you may be unable to recoup any or all of your expected principal and interest payments on those Notes. Borrowers may seek the protection of debtor relief under federal bankruptcy or state insolvency laws, which may result in the nonpayment of the Notes. Borrowers may seek protection under federal bankruptcy law or similar laws. If a borrower files for bankruptcy (or becomes the subject of an involuntary petition), a stay will go into effect that will automatically put any pending collection actions, on hold and prevent further collection action absent bankruptcy court approval. If we receive notice that a borrower has filed for protection under the federal bankruptcy laws, or has become the subject of an involuntary bankruptcy petition, we will put the borrower’s loan account into “bankruptcy status.” When we put a Loan into bankruptcy status, we terminate automatic monthly Automated Clearing House (“ACH”) debits and do not undertake collection activity without bankruptcy court approval. Whether any payment will ultimately be made or received on a Loan after a bankruptcy status is declared, depends on the borrower’s particular financial situation and the determination of the court. It is possible that the borrower’s liability on the Loan will be discharged in bankruptcy. In most cases involving the bankruptcy of a borrower with an unsecured Loan, unsecured creditors, including us and the Trust as holders of the Loan, will receive only a fraction of any amount outstanding on their Loan, if anything. Federal law entitles borrowers who enter active military service to an interest rate cap and certain other rights that may inhibit the ability to collect on loans and reduce the amount of interest paid on the corresponding Notes. Federal law provides borrowers on active military service with rights that may reduce the return on your investment, as well as delay or impair our ability to collect on a borrower Loan corresponding to your Note. The Service members Civil Relief Act (“SCRA”) requires that the interest rate on preexisting debts, such as Loans, be set at no more than 6% while the qualified service member or reservist is on active duty. A holder of a Note that is dependent on such a Loan will not receive the difference between 6% and the original stated interest rate for the Loan during any such period. This law also permits courts to stay proceedings and execution of judgments against service members and reservists on active duty, which may delay recovery on any Loan in default, and, accordingly, payments on Notes that are dependent on these Loans. If there are any amounts under such a Loan still due and owing to us after the final maturity of the Notes that correspond to the Loan, we will have no further obligation to make payments on the Notes, even if we later receive payments after the final maturity of the Notes. We do not take military service into account in assigning loan grades to borrower loan requests. In addition, as part of the borrower registration process, we do not request our borrowers to confirm if they are a qualified service member or reservists within the meaning of the SCRA. The death of a borrower may substantially impair your ability to recoup the full purchase price of Notes that are dependent on the loan to that borrower or to receive the interest payments that you expect to receive on the Notes. If a borrower dies with a loan outstanding, we will generally seek to work with the executor of the estate of the borrower to obtain repayment of the loan. However, the borrower’s estate may not contain sufficient assets to repay the loan on which your Note is dependent. In addition, if a borrower dies near the end of the term of an unsecured loan, it is unlikely that any further payments will be made on the Notes corresponding to such loan, because the time required for the probate of the estate may extend beyond the initial maturity date and the final maturity date of the Notes. The LC platform allows a borrower to prepay a Loan at any time without penalty. Loan prepayments will extinguish or limit your ability to receive additional interest payments on your investment. Loan prepayments occur when a borrower decides to pay some or all of the principal amount on a Loan earlier than originally scheduled. A borrower may decide to prepay all or a portion of the remaining principal amount at any time without penalty. In the event of a prepayment of the entire remaining unpaid principal amount of a loan on which the Notes are dependent, you will receive your share of such prepayment, net of our 1.00% service fee applicable to Notes, but further interest will not accrue after the date on which the payment is made. If a borrower prepays a portion of the remaining unpaid principal balance on a loan on which the Notes are dependent, we will reduce the outstanding principal amount and interest will cease to accrue on the prepaid portion. The combination of the reduced principal amount and the unchanged monthly payment cause the effective term of the loan to decline. If a borrower prepays a loan in full or in part, you will not receive all of the interest payments that you originally expected to receive 42 Table of Contents on Notes that are dependent on that loan, and you may not be able to find a similar rate of return on another investment at the time at which the loan is prepaid. Prepayments of loans passed onto Note holders are subject to our 1.00% service charge, even if the prepayment occurs immediately after issuance of your Note. The return on the Note may actually be negative if prepayment occurs within the first few months after issuance. Prevailing interest rates may change during the term of the Loan on which your Note is dependent. If interest rates increase, you may receive less value from your purchase of the Note in comparison to other investment opportunities. If interest rates decrease, Borrowers may prepay their loan due to changes in interest rates, and you may not be able to redeploy the amounts you receive from prepayments in a way that offers you the return you expected to receive from the Notes. The loan on which the Notes are dependent have a term of three or five years and bear fixed, not floating, rates of interest. If prevailing interest rates increase, the interest rates on Notes you purchased might be less than the current rate of return you could earn if you invested your purchase price in other investments. While you may still receive a return on your purchase price for the Notes through the receipt of amounts equal to the interest portion of a borrower’s payments on the loan, if prevailing interest rates exceed the rate of interest payable on the loan, the payments you receive during the term of the Note may not reflect the full opportunity cost to you when you take into account factors such as the time value of money. Alternatively, if prevailing interest rates on consumer loans decrease, borrowers may choose to prepay their loans without penalty with money they borrow from other sources or other resources, and you may not receive the interest payments on Notes dependent on those loans that you expect to receive or be able to find an alternative use of your money to realize a similar rate of return at the time at which the Note is prepaid. Investor funds in an investor account are held in a pooled deposit account that does not earn interest. Your investor account that enables you to purchase Notes represents an interest in a pooled demand deposit account maintained by us “in trust for” investors that does not earn interest. Similarly your investor account that enables you to purchase Notes represents either a discrete or pooled demand deposit account maintained by an independent custodian “as custodian for” investors that does not earn interest. Investor funds committed to purchase Notes represent binding commitments, and such committed funds may not be withdrawn from investor accounts (unless and until corresponding Loans included in the order are not funded, in which case the corresponding funds become available to the investor again). Funds committed to purchase Notes will not earn interest in the ITF Account or custodial accounts, respectively, and interest will not begin to accrue on a Note until the corresponding Loan has closed and the Note is issued. The pooled investor account has “pass through” deposit insurance through the FDIC, but only up to FDIC limits. Investor funds in the ITF Account at a federal banking institution. Under our agreement with the bank, investors depositing funds in the ITF Account benefit from FDIC insurance to the maximum amount, on a “pass-through” basis. Investors holding funds in the ITF Account will not have FDIC coverage for amounts in excess of the FDIC maximum, which is currently $250,000 and is measured across all accounts in a particular institution. In addition, in the unlikely event that FDIC coverage were not available on a pass-through basis, investors would have no significant FDIC insurance coverage on their deposits. The Notes will not be listed on any securities exchange, will not be transferable except for Notes transferable through the Note Trading Platform by FOLIOfn, and must be held only by LC investors. You should be prepared to hold the Notes you purchase until they mature. The Notes will not be listed on any securities exchange. All Notes must be held by LC investors. The Notes will not be transferable except through the Note Trading Platform by FOLIOfn Investments, Inc. (“FOLIOfn”), a registered broker-dealer and the trading platform is not available to residents of all states. There can be no assurance that an active market for Notes will develop on the trading platform, that there will be a buyer for any particular Notes listed for resale on the trading platform or that the trading platform will continue to operate. Therefore, investors must be prepared to hold their Notes to maturity. The U.S. federal income tax consequences of an investment in the Notes are uncertain. There are no statutory provisions, regulations, published rulings, or judicial decisions that directly address the characterization of the Notes, or instruments similar to the Notes, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, although the matter is not free from doubt, 43 Table of Contents we intend to treat the Notes as our indebtedness for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result of such treatment, the Notes will have original issue discount, or OID, for U.S. federal income tax purposes because payments on the Notes are dependent on payments on the corresponding Loan. Further, a holder of a Note, other than a holder that is holding the Note in a tax deferred account such as an IRA, will be required to include the OID in income as ordinary interest income for U.S. federal income tax purposes as it accrues (which may be in advance of interest being paid on the Note), regardless of such holder’s regular method of accounting. This characterization is not binding on the IRS, and the IRS may take contrary positions. Any differing treatment of the Notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes could significantly affect the amount, timing and character of income, gain or loss in respect of an investment in the Notes. Accordingly, all prospective purchasers of the Notes are advised to consult their own tax advisors regarding the U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax consequences of the purchase and ownership of Notes (including any possible differing treatments of the Notes). RISKS RELATING TO COMPLIANCE AND REGULATION Our platform is a novel approach to borrowing that may fail to comply with borrower protection laws such as state usury laws, other interest rate limitations or federal and state consumer protection laws such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and their state counterparts. Borrowers may make counterclaims regarding the enforceability of their obligations after collection actions have commenced, or otherwise seek damages under these laws. Compliance with such regimes is also costly and burdensome. Our novel platform must comply with regulatory regimes applicable to all consumer credit transactions. The novelty of our platform means compliance with various aspects of such laws is untested, as applied to us. Certain state laws generally regulate interest rates and other charges and require certain disclosures. In addition, other state laws, public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers, unfair and deceptive practices and debt collection practices may apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans. Our platform is also subject to other federal and state laws, such as: • state and federal securities laws, which require that any non-exempt offers and sales of the Securities be registered; • the Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated thereunder, and similar state laws, which require certain disclosures to borrowers regarding the terms of their Loans; • the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated thereunder, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, marital status, national origin, receipt of public assistance or the exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, in the extension of credit; • the Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use and reporting of information related to each borrower’s credit history; and • the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar state debt collection laws, which regulate debt collection practices by “debt collectors” and prohibit debt collectors from engaging in certain practices in collecting, and attempting to collect, outstanding consumer loans. We may not always have been, and may not always be, in compliance with these laws. Compliance with these requirements is also costly, time-consuming and limits our operational flexibility. Failure to comply with these laws and regulatory requirements applicable to our business may, among other things, limit our, or a collection agency’s, ability to collect all or part of the principal amount of or interest on the Loans on which the Notes are dependent for payment. In addition, our non-compliance could subject us to damages, revocation of required licenses or other authorities, class action lawsuits, administrative enforcement actions, rescission rights held by investors in securities offerings, and civil and criminal liability, which may harm our business and ability to maintain our platform and may result in borrowers rescinding their Loans. Where applicable, we seek to comply with state small loan, loan broker, servicing and similar statutes. Currently, we do not provide services to borrowers in Idaho, Iowa, Maine, Nebraska and North Dakota. In all other U.S. jurisdictions with licensing or other requirements we believe may be applicable to making loans, we have obtained any necessary licenses or comply with the relevant requirements. Nevertheless, if we are found to not comply with applicable laws, we could lose one or more of our licenses or authorizations or face other sanctions or be required to obtain a license in such jurisdiction, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to continue to facilitate the origination of Loans through our platform, perform our servicing obligations or make our platform available to borrowers in particular states, which may impair your ability to receive the payments of principal and interest on the Notes that you expect to receive. 44 Table of Contents If our platform was found to violate a state’s usury laws, your investment may lose substantial value and you may lose all of the interest due on your Note. The interest rates that are charged to borrowers and that form the basis of payments to investors on our Notes are based upon the ability of WebBank, the issuer of the loan, to export the interest rates of Utah to provide for uniform rates to all borrowers. Federal law provides WebBank the authority to charge these interest rates. The current rates offered by WebBank though our platform range from approximately 6.78% to 27.99%. Of the forty-four jurisdictions whose residents may obtain loans (including the District of Columbia), only seven states (Arizona, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, South Carolina, South Dakota and Utah) have no interest rate limitations on consumer loans, while all other jurisdictions have a maximum rate less than the current maximum rate offered by WebBank through our platform. If a borrower were to successfully bring a claim against us for a state usury law violation and the rate on the loan and Note underlying that borrower was greater than that allowed under applicable state law, the value of your investment may decline as you would not receive the total amount of interest you expected from your investment, and in some cases you may not receive any interest or principal. We may also be subject to fines and penalties. Moreover, such a finding could substantially harm our ability to operate our business in the manner currently contemplated. We rely on our agreement with WebBank to lend to qualified borrowers on a uniform basis throughout the United States. We have also engaged another lender, but have not used that lender in practice. If our relationship with WebBank were to end, we would need to implement that arrangement, which is untested. Borrower loan requests take the form of an application to WebBank, which currently makes all loans to our borrowers who request loans through our platform, and allows our platform to be available to borrowers on a uniform basis throughout the United States. If our relationship with WebBank were to end, or if WebBank were to cease operations, we would attempt to implement a substantially similar arrangement with another lender that they have engaged. There can be no assurance that this alternate arrangement would be comparable to the WebBank arrangement. Transitioning the origination of loans to another lender is untested and may result in delays in the process of issuing loans or, if our platform becomes inoperable, may prevent loans from being issued, which would effectively prevent us from issuing Notes. We could also face increased costs and compliance burdens if our agreement with WebBank terminated, which could affect their ability to continue operations, including servicing all loans. Several lawsuits have sought to re-characterize certain loan marketers and other originators as lenders. If litigation on similar theories were successful against us, Loans facilitated through our platform could be subject to state consumer protection laws in a greater number of states. Several lawsuits have brought under scrutiny the association between high-interest “payday loan” marketers and out-of-state banks. These lawsuits assert that payday loan marketers use out-of-state lenders in order to evade the consumer protection laws imposed by the states where they do business. Such litigation has sought to re-characterize the loan marketer as the lender for purposes of state consumer protection law restrictions. Similar civil actions have been brought in the context of gift cards. We believe that our activities are distinguishable from the activities involved in these cases. Additional state consumer protection laws would be applicable to the Loans facilitated through our platform if we were re-characterized as a lender, and the Loans could be voidable or unenforceable. In addition, we could be subject to claims by borrowers, as well as enforcement actions by regulators. Even if we were not required to cease doing business with residents of certain states or to change our business practices to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to register or obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on us. To date, no actions have been taken or threatened against us on the theory that we have engaged in unauthorized lending; however, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business As internet commerce develops, federal and state governments may draft and propose new laws to regulate internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal and state governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively affected by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to lending. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our borrowers and investors in the form of increased fees. In addition, federal and state governmental or regulatory agencies may decide to impose taxes on services provided over the Internet. These taxes could discourage the use of the Internet as a means of consumer lending, which would adversely affect the viability of our platform. 45 Table of Contents Our legal compliance burdens and costs have significantly increased as a result of operating as a public company. Our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance matters. As a public reporting company, we face costly compliance burdens, requiring significant legal, accounting and other expenses. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to SEC reporting compliance requirements. Also, as a result of disclosure of information required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If we fail to comply with SEC reporting requirements or if we are subject to actual or threatened litigation relating to our public filings, the time and resources necessary to resolve those issues could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results. If we discover a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which we are unable to remedy, or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, we performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404A of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although through such testing we discovered no material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2013, subsequent testing by us or our independent registered public accounting firm, which has not performed such an audit, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. To comply with Section 404A, we may incur substantial accounting expense, expend significant management time on compliance-related issues, and hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404A in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. If we are required to register under the Investment Company Act, our ability to conduct our business could be materially adversely affected. The Investment Company Act of 1940, or the “Investment Company Act,” contains substantive legal requirements that regulate the manner in which “investment companies” are permitted to conduct their business activities. We believe we have conducted, and we intend to continue to conduct, our business in a manner that does not result in our company being characterized as an investment company. If, however, we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were deemed to be an investment company, we may also attempt to seek exemptive relief from the SEC, which could impose significant costs and delays on our business. If our registered investment adviser, LC Advisors, LLC, were found to have violated the Investment Company Act, our ability to raise sufficient Investor purchase commitments to meet Borrower demand could be impaired. Our subsidiary, LC Advisors, LLC, acts as an advisor to certain private funds and accredited investors who make large investors purchase commitments to invest in Trust certificates, representing Loans. Our ability to continue to advise these private funds and accredited Investors depends on the continuing operation of LC Advisors. We believe we have conducted, and we intend to continue to conduct, the business of LC Advisors in substantial compliance with the Investment Company Act. If, however, we are deemed to have breached any of our obligations under the Investment Company Act, the activities of LC Advisors could be restricted, suspended or event terminated. If this were to occur, our ability to raise Investor purchase commitments through these vehicles could be severely curtailed, and we may not be able to sufficiently meet demand for Loans. This could harm our business and make it difficult for both borrowers and investors to meet demand. If we were required to register as a broker-dealer, our costs could significantly increase or our operations could be impaired. The Notes, an obligation of LC, are offered directly by us as the issuer of the Notes. We do not operate as a registered broker-dealer, and we do not believe we are obligated to do so. If a regulatory body were to find that our activities require us to register as a broker-dealer, or to sell our Notes only through a registered broker-dealer, our costs of operation could increase significantly and our ability to issue and distribute Notes could be significantly impaired. We have not reviewed our compliance with foreign laws regarding the participation of non-U.S. residents on our platform. From time to time, non-U.S. residents purchase Notes directly on our platform. As of December 31, 2013, the percentage of Notes held (based upon dollar amounts) by such persons against all Notes issued since inception was approximately 0.7%. As we have not reviewed the compliance of these sales with applicable foreign law, these sales of Notes could result in fines and penalties payable by us. Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives Have Imposed Restrictions and Requirements on Financial Institutions That Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. The financial industry is becoming more highly regulated. Legislation has been introduced recently by both U.S. and foreign governments relating to financial institutions and markets, including alternative asset management funds that would result in increased oversight and taxation. There has been, and may continue to be, a related increase in regulatory investigations of the trading and other investment activities of alternative investment funds. Such investigations may impose additional expenses by us, may require the attention of senior management and may result in fines if any of our funds are deemed to have violated any regulations. Partly in response to the recent financial crisis, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Few provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, with various provisions becoming effective in stages. Many of the rules required to be implemented by governmental agencies still have not been promulgated or implemented. These rules have or expect to increase regulation of the 46 Table of Contents financial services industry and impose restrictions on the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation. Compliance with such legislation or regulation may, among other effects, significantly increase our costs, limit our product offerings and operating flexibility, require significant adjustments in our internal business processes, and possibly require us to maintain our regulatory capital at levels above historical practices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 