ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and in other reports that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The matters discussed in the risk factors, and additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and future growth prospects and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our financial performance is dependent on our ability to execute on our growth strategy. Our fiscal 2012 operating plan and financial expectations are predicated upon our growth strategy, and our ability to achieve our desired growth depends on our execution in areas including proposal development, marketing, sales training, project management and our new telemarketing initiative, and our ability to expand our partner network rapidly, as well as other factors. If we are unable to successfully execute in any of these areas or on our growth strategy as a whole, our business and financial performance will likely be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Increasing use of our OTA financing program could require us to seek additional debt financing and/or equity capital and expose us to financing risk and additional customer credit risk and impact our financial results. Our financing program, the Orion Throughput Agreements, or OTA, is an installment based payment plan for our customers in contrast to our traditional cash terms. This financing program may subject us to additional credit risk as we do not have a long history or experience related to longer term credit decision making. Poor credit decisions or customer defaults could result in increases to our allowances for doubtful accounts and/or write-offs of accounts receivable and could have material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. These agreements and their increased use will require us to make significant investments of capital, whether we finance them internally or raise additional debt financing and/or equity capital to support the expansion. We may not be able to obtain sufficient additional equity capital and/or debt financing required to expand the OTA programs or we may not be able to obtain such additional equity capital or debt financing on acceptable terms or conditions. Any national economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could reduce our access to capital necessary for these programs. The agreements and their increased use also may subject us to additional credit risk as we do not have a long history or experience related to longer term credit decision making. Our inability to retain key employees or protect our partner network could adversely affect our operations and our ability to execute on our operating plan and growth strategy. We rely upon the knowledge, experience and skills of key employees throughout our organization, and particularly in our sales group, that require technical knowledge or contacts in and knowledge of the industry. We also depend on our value-added reseller channels, including our partner network. If we are unable to retain key employees or protect the integrity of our partner network because of competition or, in the case of employees, inadequate compensation or other factors, our operations and our ability to execute our operating plan could be adversely affected. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, our customers, suppliers and business. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption over the past several years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades, declines in asset valuations, inflation, reduced consumer spending and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to finance our operations, such conditions coupled with recessionary type economic conditions, have adversely affected our customers’ capital budgets, purchasing decisions and facilities managers and, therefore, have adversely affected our results of operations. In addition, some of our installer base of contractors have stopped doing business due to the challenging economic conditions, which has increased the cost and delayed the timing of installation of our products and thereby negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations will continue to be adversely affected to the extent these adverse financial market and general economic conditions continue to adversely affect our customers’ purchasing decisions and the availability of installers. Adverse market conditions have led to increasing duration of customer sales cycles, limitations on customer capital budgets, closure of facilities and the loss of key contacts due to workforce reductions at existing and prospective customers. The volatility and uncertainty in the financial and credit markets has led many customers to adopt strategies for conserving cash, including limits on capital spending and expense reductions. Our HIF lighting systems are often purchased as capital assets and therefore are subject to capital availability. Uncertainty around such availability has led customers to delay purchase decisions, which has elongated the duration of our sales cycles. Along with limiting capital spending, some customers have reduced expenses by closing facilities and reducing workforces. As a result, facilities that were or may be considering installing our HIF lighting systems have closed or may close. Due to downsizings, key contacts and decision-makers at customers have lost or may lose their jobs, which requires us to re-initiate the sales cycle with other personnel, further elongating the sales cycle. We have experienced, and may in 19 Table of Contents the future experience, variability in our operating results, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of these factors. Our renewable energy technologies involve many risks and uncertainties. Many new technologies do not become commercially profitable products, applications or services despite extensive development and commercialization efforts. In fiscal 2011, we continued the expansion that began in fiscal 2010 of our product and service offerings by providing our customers with alternative renewable energy systems, such as photovoltaic solar systems and wind energy systems through our Orion Engineered Systems division. This division continues to conduct research on various additional renewable energy technologies that we may be able to add to our menu of products, applications and services offered, making recommendations to our senior management regarding the technologies’ viability and developing commercialization tactics. The process of developing and commercializing new products, applications and services, particularly relating to alternative renewable energy systems, is typically both time-consuming and costly and usually involves a high degree of business risk. We may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize new technologies in the form of new products, applications or services. This process may involve substantial expenditures in research and development, sourcing and marketing. Commercialization of new technological products, applications and services often requires a very long lead time. Because it is generally not possible to predict the amount of time required or the costs involved in achieving new product, application or service introduction objectives, actual development and commercialization costs may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated development and commercialization schedules may be extended. Developing new technological products, applications and services, and creating effective commercialization strategies for new renewable energy technologies, are subject to inherent risks that may include: • Unanticipated and/or substantial delays; • Unanticipated and/or substantially increased costs; • Unrecoverable and/or substantially increased expenses; • Technical, reliability, durability or quality problems, including potential warranty and/or product liability claims; • Insufficiency of dedicated or budgeted funds; • Inability to meet targeted cost or performance objectives; • Inability to satisfy industry standards or consumer expectations and needs; • Regulatory obstacles; • Competition; • Inability to prove the original concept; • Lack of demand; and • Diversion of our management’s and employees’ focus and/or attention. The occurrence of any one or more of these risks could cause us to incur substantial costs and expenses or even to abandon or substantially delay or change our strategy of exploring the addition of new alternative renewable energy technologies into our product, application and service offerings. Orion Engineered Systems may not be able to identify suitable new technologies, we may invest too much in new technologies, our management could be distracted by new technologies and we could fail to develop any new products, applications or services successfully. Identifying suitable new alternative renewable energy technologies for addition into our product, application and service offerings may be difficult, and the failure to do so could harm our growth strategy. If we make an 20 Table of Contents investment in one or more new alternative renewable energy technologies, then we could have difficulty developing and commercializing it or integrating it into our product, application or service offerings. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses and/or capital expenditures. As a result, our failure to fully develop and commercialize potential new alternative renewable energy technologies or to integrate them effectively into our product, application and service offerings properly could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to obtain additional equity capital or debt financing necessary to effectively introduce and commercialize any new alternative renewable energy technologies identified by Orion Engineered Systems into our product, application and service offerings. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient to effectively introduce and commercialize any new alternative renewable energy technologies identified by Orion Engineered Systems into our product, application and service offerings. We may not be able to obtain sufficient additional equity capital and/or debt financing required to do so or we may not be able to obtain such additional equity capital or debt financing on acceptable terms or conditions. Factors affecting the availability to us of equity capital or debt financing on acceptable terms and conditions include: • The price, volatility and trading volume and history of our common stock. • Our current and future financial results and position. • The market’s view of our industry and products. • The perception in the equity and debt markets of our ability to execute our business plan or achieve our operating results expectations. We have no significant operating history in the solar photovoltaic or wind energy industries that can be used to evaluate our potential prospects for success in these industries. In fiscal 2011, we continued the expansion begun in fiscal 2010 of our product and service offerings by providing our customers with alternative renewable energy systems, such as photovoltaic solar systems and, potentially, wind energy systems through our Orion Engineered Systems division. In fiscal 2010, we sold and installed three solar photovoltaic electricity generating projects, completing our test analysis on two of the three in the fiscal 2010 third quarter, and executed our first cash sale and our first PPA as a result of the successful testing of these systems. In fiscal 2011, we entered into contracts for an additional seven photovoltaic electricity generating projects. Our Orion Engineered Systems division continues to conduct research on various other renewable energy technologies that we may be able to add to our menu of products, applications and services offered. We have no significant history or experience in the solar photovoltaic or wind energy industries. If we continue to further pursue adding these technologies into our product, application or service offerings, there can be no assurance that our venture into these industries will prove successful. We have no significant history or experience in developing or commercializing solar photovoltaic or wind energy technologies that can be used to evaluate our potential prospects for success. As a result, our prospects for success in being able to introduce new products, applications or services using these technologies must be considered in the context of a new company in a developing industry. The risks we face include the possibility that we will not be successful in developing or commercializing any such technologies, that we will not be able to do so without incurring unexpected and/or substantial costs and expenses and/or failing to generate any substantial incremental revenues, that we will not be able to rely on third-party manufacturers or providers of such technologies, and that we will not be able to operate successfully in the competitive environment of the solar photovoltaic and/or wind energy industries. If we are unable to address all of these risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Orion Engineered System’s pursuit of solar photovoltaic and/or wind electricity generating technologies is subject to risks specific to the solar photovoltaic and/or wind industry. If we continue to expand our offerings of solar photovoltaic electricity generating technologies and/or wind electricity generating technologies into our product, application or service offerings, such business pursuits will involve risks specifically associated with the solar photovoltaic and/or wind industry, including: • The market for photovoltaic and wind electricity generating technologies has been adversely affected by the recessionary economic conditions, and we cannot guarantee that demand will return or increase in the future. • A variety of solar power, wind power and other renewable energy technologies may be currently under development by other companies that could result in higher or more effective product performance than the performance expected to be produced by any technology that we decide to offer. • Our ability to generate revenue and profitability from adding solar photovoltaic and/or wind electricity generating technologies into our product, application or service offerings is dependent on consumer acceptance and the economic feasibility of solar and/or wind generated energy. • A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or other alternate renewable energy sources may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and profitability from solar photovoltaic and/or wind generated energy technologies. • The reduction, elimination or expiration of government mandates and subsidies or economic or tax rebates, credits and/or incentives for alternative renewable energy systems would likely substantially reduce the demand for, and economic feasibility of, any solar photovoltaic and/or wind electricity generating products, applications or services and could materially reduce any prospects for our successfully introducing any new products, applications or services using such technologies. We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are unable to compete successfully our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. We face strong competition primarily from manufacturers and distributors of energy management products and services, as well as from electrical contractors. We compete primarily on the basis of customer relationships, price, quality, energy efficiency, customer service and marketing support. Our products are in direct competition primarily with high intensity discharge, or HID, technology, as well as LED, other HIF products and older fluorescent technology in the lighting systems retrofit market. Many of our competitors are better capitalized than we are, have strong existing customer relationships, greater name recognition, and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities. Competitors could focus their substantial resources on developing a competing business model or energy management products or services that may be potentially more attractive to customers than our products or services. In addition, we may face competition from other products or technologies that reduce demand for electricity. Our competitors may also offer energy management products and services at reduced prices in order to improve their competitive positions. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, require us to lower our prices in order to remain competitive, and reduce our revenue and profitability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our success is largely dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business or to maintain profitable operations. Our continued success depends upon the continued availability, contributions, skills, experience and effort of our senior management. We are particularly dependent on the services of Neal R. Verfuerth, our chief executive officer and principal founder, Michael J. Potts, our president and chief operating officer and John Scribante, our president of Orion Engineered Systems. Messrs. Verfuerth, Potts and Scribante have major responsibilities with respect to sales, engineering, product development, operations and executive administration. We do not have a formal succession plan in place for Messrs. Verfuerth, Potts and Scribante. Our current employment agreements 22 Table of Contents with Messrs. Verfuerth, Potts and Scribante do not guarantee their respective services for a specified period of time. All of the current employment agreements with our senior management team may be terminated by the employee at any time and without notice. While all such agreements include noncompetition and confidentiality covenants, there can be no assurance that such provisions will be enforceable or adequately protect us. The loss of the services of either of these persons might impede our operations or the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives, and we may not be able to attract and retain individuals with the same or similar level of experience or expertise. Additionally, while we have key man insurance on the lives of Messrs. Verfuerth and Potts and other members of our senior management team, such insurance may not adequately compensate us for the loss of these individuals. The loss or interruption of the service of members of our senior management, particularly Messrs. Verfuerth, Potts or Scribante, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business, implement our strategy or achieve profitable operations. The success of our business depends on the market acceptance of our energy management products and services. Our future success depends on continued commercial acceptance of our energy management products and services. If we are unable to convince current and potential customers of the advantages of our HIF lighting systems and energy management products and services, then our ability to sell our HIF lighting systems and energy management products and services will be limited. In addition, because the market for energy management products and services is rapidly evolving, we may not be able to accurately assess the size of the market, and we may have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. If the market for our HIF lighting systems and energy management products and services does not continue to develop, or if the market does not accept our products, then our ability to grow our business could be limited and we may not be able to increase our revenue or achieve profitability. Our products use components and raw materials that may be subject to price fluctuations, shortages or interruptions of supply. We may be vulnerable to price increases for components or raw materials that we require for our products, including aluminum, ballasts, power supplies and lamps. In particular, our cost of aluminum can be subject to commodity price fluctuation. Further, suppliers’ inventories of certain components that our products require may be limited and are subject to acquisition by others. We have had to purchase quantities of certain components that are critical to our product manufacturing and were in excess of our estimated near-term requirements as a result of supplier delivery constraints and concerns over component availability, and we may need to do so in the future. As a result, we have had, and may need to continue, to devote additional working capital to support a large amount of component and raw material inventory that may not be used over a reasonable period to produce saleable products, and we may be required to increase our excess and obsolete inventory reserves to provide for these excess quantities, particularly if demand for our products does not meet our expectations. Also, any shortages or interruptions in supply of our components or raw materials could disrupt our operations. If any of these events occurs, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We have made a significant investment in inventory related to our wireless controls product offering, which is costly and, if not properly managed, may result in an inability to provide our products on a timely basis or in unforeseen valuation adjustments. Our wireless control inventories were approximately 50% of our total March 31, 2011 inventory balance. The components for our wireless inventories are manufactured and assembled overseas, require longer delivery lead times, suppliers require deposit payments at time of purchase order and suppliers also require volume commitments to secure production capacity. We maintain this significant investment in our wireless controls inventory in order to provide prompt and complete service to our customers. There can be no guarantees that our customers will purchase our wireless technologies or that unforeseen evolutions in technologies may render our inventories unsalable and require a valuation adjustment to our inventories. Additionally, price changes or other circumstances could result in unforeseen valuation adjustments to inventories. Such occurrences could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of key suppliers. We depend on certain key suppliers for the raw materials and key components that we require for our current products, including sheet, coiled and specialty reflective aluminum, power supplies, ballasts and lamps. In particular, we buy most of our specialty reflective aluminum from a single supplier and we also purchase most of our ballast and lamp components from a single supplier. Purchases of components from our current primary ballast and lamp supplier constituted 26% and 34% of our total cost of revenue in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, respectively. If these components become unavailable, or our relationships with suppliers become strained, particularly as relates to our primary suppliers, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We experienced component quality problems related to certain suppliers in the past, and our current suppliers may not deliver satisfactory components in the future. In fiscal 2003 through fiscal 2005, we experienced higher than normal failure rates with certain components purchased from two suppliers. These quality issues led to an increase in warranty claims from our customers and we recorded warranty expenses of approximately $0.1 million and $0.7 million in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, respectively. We may experience quality problems with suppliers in the future, which could decrease our gross margin and profitability, lengthen our sales cycles, adversely affect our customer relations and future sales prospects and subject our business to negative publicity. Additionally, we sometimes satisfy warranty claims even if they are not covered by our general warranty policy as a customer accommodation. If we were to experience quality problems with the ballasts or lamps purchased from our primary ballast and lamp supplier, these adverse consequences could be magnified, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend upon a limited number of customers in any given period to generate a substantial portion of our revenue. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and our dependence on individual key customers can vary from period to period as a result of the significant size of some of our retrofit and multi-facility roll-out projects. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 29% and 38%, respectively, of our total revenue for fiscal 2010 and 2011. In fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, our top customer accounted for less than 6% and 7% of our total revenues, respectively. We expect large retrofit and roll-out projects to continue to be a significant component of our total revenue. As a result, we may experience more customer concentration in any given future period. The loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given future period. Product liability claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face exposure to product liability claims in the event that our energy management products fail to perform as expected or cause bodily injury or property damage. Since the majority of our products use electricity, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. Particularly because our products often incorporate new technologies or designs, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or result in negative publicity about our business or adversely affect our customer relations. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. A successful product liability claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our ability to develop new products and services. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid market and technological changes, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving government, industry and utility standards and regulations. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to design and manufacture new products and services. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new products or 24 Table of Contents services that keep pace with technological or industry changes, satisfy changes in customer demands or comply with present or emerging government and industry regulations and technology standards. We may pursue acquisitions and investments in new product lines, businesses or technologies that involve numerous risks, which could disrupt our business or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, new product lines, businesses or technologies to expand our current capabilities. We have limited experience in making such acquisitions or investments. Acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs or capital expenditure requirements and reduce the value of the acquired product line, business or technology. For example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. The process of negotiating acquisitions and integrating acquired products, services, technologies, personnel, or businesses might result in significant transaction costs, operating difficulties or unexpected expenditures, and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. If we are successful in consummating an acquisition, we may not be able to integrate the acquired product line, business or technology into our existing business and products, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments may divert our management’s attention, require considerable cash outlays and require substantial additional expenses that could harm our existing operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or incur amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could dilute the interests of our shareholders or adversely affect our profitability. Our inability to protect our intellectual property, or our involvement in damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or result in the loss of use of the product or service. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We own United States patents and patent applications for some of our products, systems, business methods and technologies. We offer no assurance about the degree of protection which existing or future patents may afford us. Likewise, we offer no assurance that our patent applications will result in issued patents, that our patents will be upheld if challenged, that competitors will not develop similar or superior business methods or products outside the protection of our patents, that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. Effective protection of our United States patents may be unavailable or limited in jurisdictions outside the United States, as the intellectual property laws of foreign countries sometimes offer less protection or have onerous filing requirements. In addition, because some patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, we could adopt a technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, and such technology could infringe a third party’s patent. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise learn of our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our company and our products and services from our competitors. Some of our trademarks may conflict with trademarks of other companies. Failure to obtain trademark registrations could limit our ability to protect our trademarks and impede our sales and marketing 25 Table of Contents efforts. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. In addition, third parties may bring infringement and other claims that could be time-consuming and expensive to defend. In addition, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our products, services or business methods and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. It is possible that our intellectual property rights may not be valid or that we may infringe existing or future proprietary rights of others. Any successful infringement claims could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling products, services and business methods and require us to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, re-brand our company or products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may face additional competition if government subsidies and utility incentives for renewable energy increase or if such sources of energy are mandated. Many states and the federal government have adopted a variety of government subsidies and utility incentives to allow renewable energy sources, such as biofuels, wind and solar energy, to compete with currently less expensive conventional sources of energy, such as fossil fuels. We may face additional competition from providers of renewable energy sources if government subsidies and utility incentives for those sources of energy increase or if such sources of energy are mandated. Additionally, the availability of subsidies and other incentives from utilities or government agencies to install alternative renewable energy sources may negatively impact our customers’ desire to purchase our products and services, or may be utilized by our existing or new competitors to develop a competing business model or products or services that may be potentially more attractive to customers than ours, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If our information technology systems fail, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. We rely on those systems generally to manage the day-to-day operation of our business, manage relationships with our customers, maintain our research and development data and maintain our financial and accounting records. We recently replaced our then-existing enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. Our ERP implementation project has consumed, and may continue to consume, significant business resources, including personnel and financial resources, and is not yet fully complete. The failure of our information technology systems, our inability to successfully maintain, enhance and/or replace our information technology systems, or any compromise of the integrity or security of the data we generate from our information technology systems, could adversely affect our results of operations, disrupt our business and product development and make us unable, or severely limit our ability, to respond to customer demands. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • employee or other theft; • attacks by computer viruses or hackers; • power outages; and • computer systems, internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any interruption of our information technology systems could result in decreased revenue, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, customer dissatisfaction and potential lawsuits, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 26 Table of Contents We own and operate an industrial property that we purchased in 2004 and, if any environmental contamination is discovered, we could be responsible for remediation of the property. We own our manufacturing and distribution facility located at an industrial site. We purchased this property from an adjacent aluminum rolling mill and cookware manufacturing facility in 2004. The company that previously owned this facility has subsequently become insolvent and the facility was sold at a foreclosure sale to a new owner. Accordingly, if environmental contamination is discovered at our facility and we are required to remediate the property, we would likely have no effective recourse against the prior owners. Any such potential remediation could be costly and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to water, the remediation of contaminated properties and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, and exposure to, waste and other materials, as well as laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. These laws and regulations frequently change, and the violation of these laws or regulations can lead to substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities. The operation of our manufacturing facility entails risks in these areas and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our retrofitting process frequently involves responsibility for the removal and disposal of components containing hazardous materials. When we retrofit a customer’s facility, we typically assume responsibility for removing and disposing of its existing lighting fixtures. Certain components of these fixtures typically contain trace amounts of mercury and other hazardous materials. Older components may also contain trace amounts of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs. We currently rely on contractors to remove the components containing such hazardous materials at the customer job site. The contractors then arrange for the disposal of such components at a licensed disposal facility. Failure by such contractors to remove or dispose of the components containing these hazardous materials in a safe, effective and lawful manner could give rise to liability for us, or could expose our workers or other persons to these hazardous materials, which could result in claims against us. We expect our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could become subject to additional securities litigation. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely vary from quarter to quarter in the future. For example, our first fiscal quarter typically reflects operating results that do not compare favorably with our other fiscal quarters. You should not rely upon the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. If the price of our common stock is volatile or falls significantly below our current price, we may be the target of additional securities litigation. If we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs, management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, and our reputation could be damaged, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation and may be subject to a valuation adjustment if we do not maintain our profitability. As of March 31, 2011, we had aggregate federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $8.1 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $4.8 million. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards 27 Table of Contents attributable to the period prior to such change. We believe that past issuances and transfers of our stock caused an ownership change in fiscal 2007 that may affect the timing of the use of our net operating loss carryforwards, but we do not believe the ownership change affects the use of the full amount of our net operating loss carryforwards. As a result, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such ownership change to offset taxable income will be subject to limitations in a particular year, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us. In fiscal 2008, utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards was limited to $3.0 million. For fiscal 2009, 2010 and 2011, utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards was not limited. In addition to any limitations imposed by a past ownership change, if we fail to maintain our recent profitability, our net operating loss carryforwards and related deferred tax assets may be subject to a valuation adjustment. The restatement of our historical financial statements has already consumed, and may continue to consume, a significant amount of our time and resources and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As described earlier, we have restated our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2010 and our first three quarters of fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011. The restatement process was highly time and resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management and significant legal and accounting costs. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that we will have no inquiries from the SEC or the NYSE Amex regarding our restated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our resources in addition to those resources already consumed in connection with the restatement itself. Further, many companies that have been required to restate their historical financial statements have experienced a decline in stock price and shareholder lawsuits related thereto. We were unable to timely file this Annual Report on Form 10-K as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and our continued inability to file these reports on time could result in investors not having access to important information about us and the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE Amex LLC. Due to the complexities and complications associated with the restatement of our financial statements, we were late in filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result, we were not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NYSE Amex LLC Company Guide and with the applicable SEC rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We are required to comply with these rules as a condition to listing on the NYSE Amex LLC. Furthermore, the late filing has resulted in our inability to utilize a “short-form” registration statement on SEC Form S-3 for a period of twelve months. Although we have been timely with our other quarterly and annual reports, there can be no assurance that we will be able to timely file such reports in the future. If we are unable to timely file all reports in the future, you may not receive information from us in a timely manner. In addition, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE Amex LLC. Such events would negatively impact the price of our common stock and, if we are delisted, the liquidity of such stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If these analysts do not continue to provide adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. 28 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future sales of our common stock in the public market by our executive officers and directors. Our executive officers and directors may from time to time sell shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise. We cannot predict the size or the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock by our executive officers and directors, or the perception of such sales, would have on the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions included in the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation or bylaws and the common share purchase rights that accompany shares of our common stock could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could adversely impact the value of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or management. A change of control of our company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by certain provisions of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law. These provisions generally restrict a broad range of business combinations between a Wisconsin corporation and a shareholder owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, including our staggered board of directors and our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock, as well as the provisions of our amended and restated bylaws and Wisconsin law, could make it more difficult for shareholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Each currently outstanding share of our common stock includes, and each newly issued share of our common stock will include, a common share purchase right. The rights are attached to and trade with the shares of common stock and generally are not exercisable. The rights will become exercisable if a person or group acquires, or announces an intention to acquire, 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. The rights have some anti-takeover effects and generally will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire control of us without conditioning the offer on either redemption of the rights or amendment of the rights to prevent this dilution. The rights could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control. In addition, our employment arrangements with senior management provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of stock options, upon a change of control. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. These provisions may also discourage or prevent a change of control or result in a lower price per share paid to our shareholders. We may fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants in our credit agreement, which could result in our being unable to borrow under the agreement and other negative consequences. Our credit agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., contains certain financial covenants including minimum net income requirements and requirements that we maintain net worth ratios at prescribed levels. The credit agreement also contains certain restrictions on our ability to make capital or lease expenditures over prescribed limits, incur additional indebtedness, consolidate or merge, guarantee obligations of third parties, make loans or advances, declare or pay any dividend or distribution on our stock, redeem or repurchase shares of our stock, or pledge assets. The credit agreement also contains other customary covenants. As of March 31, 2011, we had no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the financial and other covenants in the credit agreement. Our failure to comply with these covenants could cause us to be unable to borrow under the agreement and may constitute an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the maturity of any indebtedness then outstanding under the agreement, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. Due to our cash and cash equivalent position and the fact that we have no borrowings currently outstanding, we do not currently anticipate that our failure to comply with the covenants under the credit agreement would have a significant impact on our ability to meet our financial obligations in the near term. Our failure to comply with such 29 Table of Contents covenants, however, would be a disclosable event and may be perceived negatively. Such perception could adversely affect the market price for our common stock and our ability to obtain financing in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On March 23, 2011, we received a comment letter from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The comments from the staff were issued with respect to its review of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 and the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2010. In addition to other comments, the staff’s letter included comments relating to our determination of the depreciation period for the equipment under both our OTA and PPA agreements, the nature of the arrangements with a financing company under which we have sold OTA agreements and the accounting treatment thereof. We responded to all of the staff’s comments in a letter dated April 4, 2011, and the staff replied with additional comments on the topics described above. We responded to all of the additional comments on May 13, 2011. As of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K, the staff continues to review our latest responses and, therefore, these comments remain unresolved. 