ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are substantially dependent upon our relationship with CNH. We are an authorized dealer of CNH agricultural and construction equipment and parts. In fiscal 2012, CNH supplied approximately 81.9% of the new agricultural equipment and 56.3% of the new construction equipment we sold and represented a significant portion of our parts revenue. Our acquisition strategy contemplates the acquisition of additional CNH geographic areas of responsibility and store locations in both the Agricultural and Construction equipment segments. We depend on CNH Capital for floorplan financing to purchase a substantial portion of our inventory. In addition, CNH Capital provides a significant percentage of the financing used by our customers to purchase CNH equipment from us. CNH also provides incentive programs and discount programs from time to time that enable us to price our products more competitively. In addition, CNH conducts promotional and marketing activities on national, regional and local levels. Due to our substantial dependence on CNH, our success depends, in significant part, on (i) the overall reputation and success of CNH; (ii) the availability and terms of floorplan financing and customer financing from CNH Capital; (iii) the incentive and discount programs provided by CNH and its promotional and marketing efforts for its agricultural and construction products; (iv) the goodwill associated with CNH trademarks; (v) the introduction of new and innovative products by CNH; (vi) the manufacture and delivery of competitively-priced, high quality equipment and parts by CNH in quantities sufficient to meet our customers' requirements on a timely basis; (vii) the quality, consistency and management of the overall CNH dealership system; and (viii) the ability of CNH to manage its risks and costs, including those associated with being a multinational company. If CNH does not provide, maintain or improve any of the foregoing, or if CNH were sold or reduced or ceased operations, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. CNH may terminate its dealership agreements with us or change the terms of those agreements, which could adversely affect our business. Under our dealership agreements with CNH through CNH America, LLC, CNH's U.S. manufacturing entity, CNH entities have the right to terminate these agreements immediately in certain 17 Table of Contents circumstances, and, in some cases, for any reason 90 days following written notice. Furthermore, CNH entities may change the terms of their agreements with us, among other things, to change our sales and service areas and/or the product, pricing or delivery terms. CNH routinely conducts evaluations of dealership standards, customer satisfaction surveys and market share studies, the results of which can impact the relationships with its dealers. CNH uses the evaluation results to increase or decrease the monetary rewards to dealers, or limit or expand the availability of financing, warranty reimbursements or other marketing incentives. If CNH were to change the terms of any or all of these agreements in a manner that adversely affects us, our business may be harmed, and if CNH were to terminate all or any of its dealer agreements with us, our business would be severely harmed. Restrictions in our CNH dealership agreements may significantly affect our operations and growth and prevent a change in control of our company. We operate our stores pursuant to CNH's customary dealership agreements. These agreements impose a number of restrictions and obligations on us with respect to our operations, including our obligations to actively promote the sale of CNH equipment within our designated geographic areas of responsibility, fulfill the warranty obligations of CNH, provide services to our customers, maintain sufficient parts inventory to service the needs of our customers, maintain inventory in proportion to the sales potential in each sales and service geographic area of responsibility, maintain adequate working capital and maintain stores only in authorized locations. Prior consent of CNH is required for the acquisition by another party of 20% or more of our outstanding stock and for our acquisition of other CNH dealerships; otherwise, CNH may terminate our dealership agreements. There can be no assurances that CNH will give its consent. The restrictions and obligations in our CNH dealership agreements limit our flexibility in operating our current stores and acquiring new stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operations and growth. Furthermore, the requirement that CNH consent to the acquisition by any party of 20% or more of our outstanding stock may have the effect of discouraging transactions involving a change in our control, including transactions that stockholders might deem to be in their best interests. Our equipment dealer appointments are not exclusive to the geographic areas we serve, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. CNH could appoint other equipment dealers in close proximity to our existing stores. The sales and service geographic areas of responsibility assigned to our stores can be enlarged or reduced by CNH upon 30 days' prior written notice. CNH and other equipment dealers can also sell in our sales and service geographic areas of responsibility. To the extent CNH appoints other equipment dealers within our markets, enlarges or reduces the sales and service geographic areas of responsibility relating to our stores, amends the dealership agreements or imposes new or different terms or conditions under the dealer agreements, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by an under-supply or over-supply of equipment. If our suppliers cannot continue to provide us a reliable supply of new equipment, we may not be able to meet our customers' demand and our operating results could be negatively impacted. In times of heightened global demand for equipment, which is often driven by other factors (e.g., net farm income often drives demand for agricultural equipment and infrastructure development often drives construction equipment demand), equipment suppliers may experience difficulty providing all dealerships a reliable supply of new agricultural equipment, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Further, an under-supply of equipment may cause prices for such equipment to increase. To the extent we cannot pass on any increased costs of equipment to our customers, our operating results may suffer. Conversely, an industry over-supply of equipment may also adversely affect our operations. Though manufacturers typically manage production of new equipment in response to demand, there may be short-term under-supplies or over-supplies of new equipment as manufacturers adjust to 18 Table of Contents industry demand fluctuations. For used and rental equipment, short-term lease programs and commercial rental agencies for construction and agricultural equipment have expanded significantly in North America. Nationwide rental conglomerates have become sizeable purchasers of new equipment and can have a significant impact on industry sales and margins. When equipment comes off of lease or is replaced with newer equipment by rental agencies, there may be a significant increase in the availability of late-model used equipment. An over-supply of used equipment could adversely affect demand for, or the market prices of, new and used equipment. In addition, a decline in used equipment prices could have an adverse effect on residual values for rental equipment, which could adversely affect our financial performance. If our acquisition plans are unsuccessful, we may not achieve our planned revenue growth. We believe a significant portion of our future growth will depend on our ability to acquire additional dealerships. Our ability to continue to grow through the acquisition of additional CNH geographic areas of responsibility and store locations or other businesses will be dependent upon the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable costs, our ability to compete effectively for available acquisition candidates and the availability of capital to complete the acquisitions. We may not successfully identify suitable targets, or if we do, we may not be able to close the transactions, or if we close the transactions, they may not be profitable. In addition, CNH's consent is required for the acquisition of any CNH dealership, and the consent of the Wells Fargo Bank Syndicate is required for the acquisition of dealerships meeting certain thresholds or other criteria defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility. CNH typically evaluates management, performance and capitalization of a prospective acquirer in determining whether to consent to the sale of a CNH dealership. There can be no assurance that CNH or the Wells Fargo Bank Syndicate will consent to any or all acquisitions of dealerships that we may propose. Our potential inability to successfully integrate newly-acquired dealerships may adversely affect our financial results. Once an acquisition is completed, we face many other risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include incurring significantly higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses; failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships; disrupting our ongoing business; dissipating our management resources; failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; and impairing relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. Fully integrating an acquired dealership into our operations and realization of the full benefit of our strategies, operating model and systems may take several years. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with such acquisitions. To the extent we do not successfully avoid or overcome the risks or problems related to acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions also will have a significant impact on our financial position and capital needs, and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly results of operations. Acquisitions could include significant goodwill and intangible assets, which may result in future impairment charges that would reduce our stated earnings. We have grown significantly through acquisitions in recent years and expect to continue to grow through acquisitions. Management has expended, and expects to continue to expend, significant time and effort in evaluating, completing and integrating acquisitions and opening new stores. Our systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our expanding operations. Any future growth will also impose significant added responsibilities on our executives, including the need to identify, recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. We may not be able to identify and retain such additional management. If we are unable to manage growth efficiently and effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents International operations expose us to additional risks. Operations in countries outside the U.S. are accompanied by certain risks and potential costs, including: •difficulties implementing our business model in foreign markets; •costs and diversion of management attention related to oversight of international operations; •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; •tariffs, quotas, and other regulations of international trade; •import and export licensing requirements; •compliance with multiple, and potentially conflicting, foreign laws, regulations and policies that are subject to change; •compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U.S. laws that apply to the international operations of U.S. companies; •lesser intellectual property protection in some foreign countries than exists in the U.S.; •changing economic conditions in the international markets in which we operate; •labor practices that differ from those in the U.S.; and •political and economic instability, including occasional disruption in foreign financial markets. These factors, in addition to others that we have not anticipated, may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We lease many of our store locations from related parties, and if we are unable to obtain commercially reasonable terms and conditions from these related parties or unrelated third parties in the future, our growth and financial condition may be adversely affected. As of January 31, 2012, we leased 47 of our 93 store locations from entities affiliated with David Meyer, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Tony Christianson, one of our directors, or Peter Christianson, our President and Chief Operating Officer. We expect that we may lease future store locations we acquire from parties related to our affiliates. There is no guarantee that related parties will offer us commercially reasonable terms and conditions or that unrelated third parties will provide alternate store locations on commercially reasonable terms and conditions. If we cannot obtain commercially reasonable terms and conditions on leases for our current or future store locations from entities related to Messrs. Meyer, Tony Christianson or Peter Christianson, or from unrelated third parties, our growth and financial condition may be adversely affected. Substantial inventory financing required for the equipment we sell may not be available, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations. The sale of agricultural and construction equipment requires substantial inventories of equipment and parts to be maintained at each store to facilitate sales to customers on a timely basis. We generally purchase our inventories of equipment with the assistance of floorplan financing programs through CNH Capital and other lenders. As we grow, whether internally or through acquisitions, our inventory requirements will increase and, as a result, our financing requirements also will increase. In the event that our available financing sources are not maintained or are insufficient to satisfy our future requirements, we would be required to obtain financing from other sources. There can be no assurance that additional or alternative financing could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. To the extent additional financing cannot be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Failure to properly manage our equipment inventory, our largest asset, would have a significant adverse effect on our operations. Our equipment inventory has traditionally represented 50% or more of our total assets. Thus, our success is significantly dependent upon our ability to manage the supply and cost of new and used equipment. The pricing of equipment can be highly volatile and subject to negotiation, particularly in the used equipment market. Pricing for and sales of used equipment can be significantly affected by the limited market for such equipment. Further, liquidation prices of used agricultural and construction equipment can have significant fluctuations due to economic cycles, utilization trends and degree of specialization. We are dependent upon the ability of our management and buyers to negotiate acceptable purchase prices, to affect a proper balance of new and used equipment and to manage the amount of equipment in inventory to assure quick turnover. Our failure to manage our inventory and equipment costs could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in governmental policies, including decreases in tax incentives or farm subsidies, may reduce demand for agricultural and construction equipment and cause our revenue to decline. Customers in our Agriculture and Construction segments currently benefit from various tax incentives related to equipment purchases. To the extent that changes in these and other tax incentives are reduced or eliminated, our customers may correspondingly delay or reduce future equipment purchases, and our revenue and profitability would be harmed. Changes in governmental agricultural policy could adversely affect sales of agricultural equipment. Government subsidies influence demand for agricultural equipment. Future farm bills and USDA budgets may reduce the amount of payments to individual farmers. We cannot predict the outcome of such governmental funding, and to the extent that future funding to individual farmers is reduced, these reductions in funding could reduce demand for agricultural equipment and we could experience a decline in revenue. Economic events, particularly in the credit markets, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The agricultural and construction equipment industries are affected by macroeconomic factors, including changes in international, national, regional, and local economic conditions. Current global economic conditions pose a risk to our business as customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news, downturns in agricultural commodity prices and the housing market and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. Our business is also particularly dependent on our access to the capital and credit markets to finance acquisitions and manage inventory. Tight credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets have the potential to adversely affect our business. Such disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets and the related reduction in consumer confidence in the economy, slow activity in the capital markets, negatively affect access to credit on commercially acceptable terms, and may adversely impact the access of us or our customers to credit and the terms of any such credit. Further, any decreased collectability of accounts receivable or increase in customer insolvencies could negatively impact our results of operations. The nature of the agricultural and construction equipment industries is such that a downturn in demand can occur suddenly, due to tightening credit markets, decreasing commodity prices or demand, decreasing infrastructure and housing development, adverse weather conditions or other circumstances, resulting in excess inventory, un-utilized production capacity and reduced prices for equipment, which would harm our revenue and profitability. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions, agricultural commodity prices and demand and the housing market could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. 21 Table of Contents Adverse changes in the agricultural industries could result in decreases in purchases of agricultural equipment and harm our revenue and profitability. Our business depends to a great extent upon general activity levels in the agricultural industries. Changes in net farm income and farmland value, the level of worldwide farm output and demand for farm products, commodity prices, animal diseases and crop pests, and limits on agricultural imports are all material factors that could adversely affect the agricultural industries and result in a decrease in the amount of agricultural equipment that our customers purchase. The nature of the agricultural equipment industries is such that a downturn in demand can occur suddenly, resulting in excess inventories, un-utilized production capacity and reduced prices for new and used equipment. These downturns may be prolonged and our revenue and profitability would be harmed. Adverse changes in the construction industry could result in decreased demand for construction equipment and harm our revenue. General economic conditions in markets in which we do business can impact the demand for our construction equipment. The construction industry in our geographical areas has experienced a prolonged economic down cycle as a result of the macroeconomic environment, which negatively impacts sales of light construction equipment. Decreased demand for our products can have a negative impact on our financial performance and cash flow. Our business and earnings are impacted by changes in the construction industry. The ability of consumers to obtain mortgages for the purchase of newly constructed homes or commercial properties impacts the overall demand for new home construction. The uncertainties created by events in the sub-prime mortgage market and their impact on the overall mortgage market, including the tightening of credit standards, could adversely affect the ability of consumers to obtain financing, thus reducing demand for new construction and in turn reducing our customers' demand for our construction equipment. Reduced demand for our construction equipment could negatively affect our financial performance and cash flow. Climate fluctuations may negatively impact the agricultural and construction equipment markets and harm our sales. Weather conditions, particularly severe floods and droughts, can have a significant impact on the success of regional agricultural and construction markets and, therefore, the economic conditions of the regions in which we operate stores. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by any adverse cyclical trends or weather conditions. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation due to varying weather patterns, which may impact the timing and amount of equipment, parts and service purchases by our customers. A significant increase in the severity of weather cycles could increase the volatility of our results of operations and impact our financial condition. If we acquire businesses in geographic areas other than where we currently have operations, we may be affected more by the above-mentioned or other seasonal and equipment buying trends. Our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period due to interest rate adjustments. The ability to finance affordable purchases, of which the interest rate charged is a significant component, is an important part of a customer's decision to purchase agricultural or construction equipment. Volatility in the credit markets may have a negative impact on our business by making it more difficult for certain of our customers to obtain financing to purchase agricultural or construction equipment. Interest rate increases may make equipment purchases less affordable for customers and, as a result, our revenue and profitability may decrease as we manage excess inventory and reduce prices for equipment. To the extent we cannot pass on our increased costs of inventory to our customers, our net income may decrease. Conversely, any decrease in interest rates may positively affect a customer's decision to purchase agricultural or construction equipment. Partially as a result of the foregoing, our results of operations have in the past and in the future are expected to continue to fluctuate from 22 Table of Contents quarter to quarter and year to year. We are unable to anticipate the timing and impact of interest rate adjustments. Aggressive pricing competition could adversely affect our results of operation and growth. The agricultural and construction equipment sales and distribution industries are highly competitive and fragmented, with large numbers of companies operating on a regional or local scale. Historically, our competitors have competed aggressively on the basis of pricing or inventory availability, resulting in decreased margins on our sales to the extent we choose to match our competitors' downward pricing. To the extent we choose not to match or remain within a reasonable competitive distance from our competitors' pricing, it could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may lose sales volume. In addition, to the extent CNH's competitors provide their dealers with more innovative or higher quality products, better customer financing, or have more effective marketing efforts, our ability to compete and financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are substantially dependent on our Chief Executive Officer and President/Chief Operating Officer, the loss of either of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe our success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of David Meyer, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Peter Christianson, our President and Chief Operating Officer. The employment relationships with both Mr. Meyer and Mr. Christianson are terminable by us or each of them at any time for any reason. The loss of the services of one or both of these persons and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Selling and renting agricultural and construction equipment and selling parts subjects us to product liability risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and reputation. Products sold, rented or serviced by us may expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or property damage claims relating to the use of such products. Our product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover product liability claims. Such insurance may not continue to be available on economically reasonable terms. An uninsured or partially insured claim for which indemnification is not provided could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, if any significant claims are made against us or against CNH or any of our other suppliers, our business may be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity. Being a public company has substantially increased our legal and financial compliance costs, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with publicly-traded company regulations adversely impacts our resources. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to rules and regulations that increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more time-consuming and costly, and divert our management's attention away from the operation of our business. These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, we may experience more difficulty attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of these requirements or the timing of these costs. The costs of being a publicly-traded company and the attendant diversion of management's time and attention may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to its effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remedial actions or their impact on our operations. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In fiscal 2010, we began implementing a new ERP system. Unforeseen problems with or any difficulties encountered integrating the new ERP system could result in internal control deficiencies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 