ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe are substantially dependent upon CNH, our primary supplier of equipment and parts inventory.The majority of our business involves the distribution and servicing of equipment manufactured by CNH. In fiscal 2014, CNH supplied approximately 79% of the new equipment sold in our Agriculture segment, 73% of the new equipment sold in our Construction segment, and 71% of the new equipment sold in our International segment, and represented a significant portion of our parts revenue. Therefore, our success depends, in significant part, on the overall reputation and success of CNH in the agricultural and construction equipment manufacturing industries. We depend on CNH’s ongoing commitment to, and support of, its distribution system that relies on a dealer network. In the event that CNH or any of its equipment manufacturing segments were reduced or sold, or if CNH would change its distribution system to our detriment, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.CNH's ability to match new product offerings to diverse customers' anticipated preferences for different types and sizes of equipment and various equipment features and functionality, at affordable prices, is important to our continued success in the agricultural and construction equipment distributor markets. While we believe that CNH has, and will continue to have, excellent brand recognition, product innovation, and customer support, there can be no assurance that CNH will be able to maintain its reputation and market positions in the future. 11Table of ContentsWe depend on CNH or its affiliated entities for other programs and support including the following:•CNH Capital provides floorplan payable financing for the purchase of a substantial portion of our inventory.•CNH Capital provides a significant percentage of the financing used by our customers to purchase CNH equipment from us.•CNH provides incentive programs and discount programs from time to time that enable us to price our products more competitively.•CNH conducts promotional and marketing activities on national, regional and local levels.There can be no assurances that CNH will continue to offer these programs in the future. Our acquisition strategy contemplates the acquisition of additional CNH geographic areas of responsibility and store locations in each of our Agriculture, Construction and International segments, which acquisitions require the consent of CNH under our current dealer agreements. There can be no assurance that CNH will consent to any or all of the acquisitions of dealerships that we may propose in the future.Our dealer agreements with CNH impose numerous obligations on us and grant to CNH certain rights to terminate or change the terms of the dealer agreements.Our dealer agreements with CNH impose a number of obligations on us with respect to our operations, including our obligations to actively promote the sale of CNH equipment within our designated geographic areas of responsibility, fulfill the warranty obligations of CNH, provide services to our customers, maintain sufficient parts inventory to service the needs of our customers, maintain inventory in proportion to the sales potential in each sales and service geographic area of responsibility, maintain adequate working capital and maintain stores only in authorized locations.Subject to applicable state statutes that govern the dealer-manufacturer legal relationship, CNH has the right under our dealer agreements to terminate these agreements upon the occurrence of certain events, and to change the terms of the agreements. CNH may terminate the agreements immediately in certain circumstances and, in some cases, for any reason 90 days following written notice. If CNH were to terminate all or any of its dealer agreements with us, our business would be severely harmed. Furthermore, CNH may change the terms of their agreements with us to, among other things, change our sales and service areas, the product offerings, pricing or delivery terms. Moreover, CNH may increase or decrease the monetary rewards to dealers, or limit or expand the availability of financing, warranty reimbursements or other marketing incentives. If CNH were to change the terms of any or all of these agreements or its operating policies in a manner that adversely affects us, our business would be harmed.Consent of CNH is required for the acquisition by another party of 20% or more of our outstanding stock; otherwise, CNH may terminate our dealer agreements. This requirement may have the effect of discouraging transactions involving a change in our control, including transactions that our stockholders might deem to be in their best interests. There can be no assurances that CNH will give its consent for any such proposed change of ownership. Our operating results will be adversely impacted if our suppliers are unable to provide us with a reliable supply of equipment to satisfy the needs of our customers, or in the event of industry "over-supply" inventory situations.If our suppliers (principally CNH) cannot continue to provide us a reliable supply of new equipment, we may not be able to meet our customers' demand and our operating results could be negatively impacted.In times of heightened global demand for equipment, which is often driven by numerous external factors (e.g., net farm income often drives demand for agricultural equipment and infrastructure development/construction activities often drives construction equipment demand), equipment suppliers may experience difficulty providing all dealerships a reliable supply of new equipment, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Further, an under-supply of our suppliers' equipment may cause prices for such equipment to increase. To the extent we cannot pass on any increased costs of equipment to our customers, based on current market conditions for our various stores, our operating results may suffer. Conversely, an industry over-supply of equipment would be an indicator of general weakness in market demand for our products, and a cause for concern for both distributors and manufacturers.Though manufacturers typically manage production of new equipment in response to demand, there may be short-term under-supplies or over-supplies of new equipment as manufacturers adjust to industry demand fluctuations.12Table of ContentsOur financial performance is substantially dependent on our ability to effectively manage new and used equipment inventory.The sale of agricultural and construction equipment requires substantial inventories of equipment and parts to be maintained at each store to facilitate sales to customers on a timely basis. Our equipment inventory has traditionally represented 50% or more of our total assets. We are dependent upon the ability of our management to maintain a proper balance of new and used equipment to assure satisfactory inventory turnover and to reduce floorplan payable financing costs. A prolonged period where we have an over-supply of inventory could materially adversely affect our results of operations.Our purchases of parts and new equipment are based in large part on projected market demand. If actual sales are materially less than our forecasts, we would experience an over-supply of inventory. An over-supply of new equipment inventory may cause downward pressure on our product sale prices and margins, and increases to our floorplan payable financing expenses.Most of our used equipment is acquired as “trade-ins” in connection with new equipment transactions. Our used equipment inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. This valuation process involves subjective analyses of market data, on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurances that our book values will prove to be accurate, given the potential for sudden change in market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Moreover, pricing for, and sales of, used equipment can be significantly affected by the limited market for certain equipment. In a down market, our used equipment may not have the value that we attributed to it at the time of the trade. We are constantly evaluating and, as appropriate, adjusting our used inventory values based on the market conditions. However, there can be no assurances that our initial valuations of trade-ins or our periodic inventory adjustments will be accurate.Competitive lease programs offered by our competitors affect the residual value of our rental equipment and our used equipment in general.For used and rental equipment, short-term lease programs and commercial rental agencies for construction and agricultural equipment have expanded significantly in North America. Nationwide rental conglomerates have become sizeable purchasers of new equipment and can have a significant impact on industry sales and margins. When equipment comes off of lease or is replaced with newer equipment by rental agencies, there may be a significant increase in the availability of late-model used equipment. An over-supply of used equipment could adversely affect demand for, or the market prices of, new and used equipment. In addition, a decline in used equipment prices could have an adverse effect on residual values for rental equipment, which could adversely affect our financial performance.Floorplan payable financing for the equipment we sell may not be available, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations.We generally purchase our equipment with the assistance of floorplan payable financing programs through CNH Capital and other lenders. In the event that our available financing sources are not maintained or are insufficient to satisfy our future requirements, we would be required to obtain financing from other sources. There can be no assurance that additional or alternative financing could be obtained or obtained on commercially reasonable terms. To the extent additional financing cannot be obtained or obtained on commercially reasonable terms, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.Much of our borrowings, including the credit facilities with CNH Capital, Wells Fargo and Agricredit, are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. As such, our results of operations are sensitive to movements in interest rates. There are many economic factors outside our control that have in the past and may, in the future, impact rates of interest including publicly announced indices that underlie the interest obligations related to a certain portion of our debt. Factors that impact interest rates include governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. Such increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations.The agricultural and construction equipment industries are highly seasonal, and seasonal fluctuations significantly impact results of operations and cash flow.The agricultural and construction equipment businesses are highly seasonal, which causes our quarterly results and our available cash flow to fluctuate during the year. Farmers generally purchase agricultural equipment in preparation for, or in 13Table of Contentsconjunction with, the spring planting and fall harvesting seasons. In addition, the fourth quarter typically is a significant period for equipment sales in the U.S. because of our customers’ year-end tax planning considerations, the timing of dealer incentives and the increase in availability of funds from completed harvests.Seasonal weather trends, particularly severe wet or dry conditions, can have a significant impact on regional agricultural and construction market performance by affecting crop production and the ability to undertake construction projects. Weather conditions that adversely affect the agricultural or construction markets have negative effect on the demand for our products and services.In addition, numerous external factors such as credit markets, commodity prices, and other circumstances may disrupt normal purchasing practices and buyer sentiment, further contributing to the seasonal fluctuations.Adverse changes in the agricultural industries could result in decreased demand for agricultural equipment and harm our revenue and profitability.Our business depends to a great extent upon general activity levels in the agricultural industries. Changes in net farm income and farmland value, the level of worldwide farm output and demand for farm products, commodity prices, animal diseases and crop pests, limits on agricultural exports/imports, and legislative changes, including changes to government regulations and programs promoting the ethanol and biofuels industries, are all material factors that could adversely affect the agricultural industries and result in a decrease in the amount of agricultural equipment that our customers purchase. The nature of the agricultural equipment industries is such that a downturn in demand can occur suddenly, resulting in excess equipment inventories, un-utilized production capacity and reduced prices for new and used equipment. Such downturns may be prolonged and our revenue and profitability could be harmed.Adverse changes in the construction industry could result in decreased demand for construction equipment and harm our revenue and profitability.Our construction customers generally operate in the mining, natural resource development, construction, transportation, manufacturing, industrial processing and utilities industries. Those industries generally are capital intensive and cyclical in nature. As a result, customer demand for our products and services may be affected by economic conditions at both a global and a local level. Economic conditions that negatively affect the construction industry, such as the tightening of credit standards that affect the ability of consumers to obtain financing, could reduce our customers' demand for our construction equipment. The construction industry in certain of our geographical areas has experienced a prolonged economic down cycle as a result of the macroeconomic environment, which negatively impacts sales of construction equipment. Reduced demand for our construction equipment could negatively affect our financial performance and cash flow.General economic conditions, particularly in the credit markets, may adversely affect our business.The agricultural and construction equipment industries are affected by macroeconomic factors, including changes in international, national, regional, and local economic conditions. Our business is particularly dependent on our access to the capital and credit markets to finance acquisitions and manage inventory. Tight credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets have the potential to adversely affect our business. Such disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets and the related reduction in consumer confidence in the economy, slow activity in the capital markets, negatively affect access to credit on commercially acceptable terms, and may adversely impact the access of us or our customers to credit and the terms of any such credit. The ability to finance affordable purchases, of which the interest rate charged is a significant component, is an important part of a customer's decision to purchase agricultural or construction equipment. Interest rate increases may make equipment purchases less affordable for customers and, as a result, our revenue and profitability may decrease as we manage excess inventory and reduce prices for equipment. Conversely, any decrease in interest rates may positively affect a customer's decision to purchase agricultural or construction equipment. We are unable to anticipate the timing and impact of interest rate adjustments.An adverse change in commodity prices could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.Many of our customers are directly and indirectly affected by fluctuations in commodity prices in the agriculture, forestry, metals and minerals, petroleum and natural gas industries and, as a result, we are also indirectly affected by fluctuations in those prices. An adverse change in commodity prices may adversely affect the demand for the products we sell and negatively impact our results of operation.14Table of ContentsChanges in tax incentives may reduce demand for agricultural and construction equipment and cause our revenue to decline.Our customers in the agriculture and construction segments have benefited in recent years from Section 168(k) accelerated depreciation, known as “bonus depreciation”, and enhanced Section 179 expensing rules. Absent new federal legislation, these tax incentives have been curtailed or eliminated for calendar year 2014 . There can be no assurances whether our customers' future purchasing decisions will be affected by these tax law changes. Adverse changes in governmental policies may reduce demand for agricultural and construction equipment and cause our revenue to decline.Changes in governmental agricultural policy could adversely affect sales of agricultural equipment. Government programs and subsidies that reduce economic volatility and enhance farm income, positively influence farmers' demand for agricultural equipment. Future farm bills and U.S. Department of Agriculture ("USDA") budgets may reduce the benefit of these programs. We cannot predict the outcome of such changes to agricultural policies and to the extent that future funding or farm programs available to individual farmers are reduced, these changes could reduce demand for agricultural equipment and we could experience a decline in revenue. Changes in government spending on infrastructure projects could adversely affect the demand for construction equipment and we could experience a decline in revenue.Our sales and margins may be negatively affected by the final Tier 4B clean diesel emissions standards, which are now in effect. Tier 4 refers to a generation of federal air emissions standards established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) that apply to new diesel engines used in off-road equipment. To satisfy these standards, manufacturers must introduce new cleaner diesel engines which will increase the manufacturing costs of the equipment. To the extent that our suppliers pass on these additional costs to its dealers, as expected, we will pay more for our inventory. There can be no assurances that we will be able to pass on these price increases to our customers as necessary for us to maintain our desired margins. Weather conditions may negatively impact the agricultural and construction equipment markets and harm our sales.Weather conditions, particularly severe floods and droughts, can have a significant impact on the success of regional agricultural and construction markets. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by any adverse cyclical trends or weather conditions. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation due to varying weather patterns, which may impact the timing and amount of equipment, as well as parts and service purchases by our customers. Our rental operations subjects us to risks including increased maintenance costs if our rental fleet ages, increased costs of new replacement equipment we use in our fleet, and losses upon disposition of rental fleet units.If our rental equipment ages, the costs of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, will likely increase. The costs of maintenance may materially increase in the future and could lead to material adverse effects on our results of operations.The cost of new equipment for use in our rental fleet could also increase due to increased material costs for our suppliers or other factors beyond our control. Such increases could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Furthermore, changes in customer demand could cause certain of our existing equipment to become obsolete and require us to purchase new equipment at increased costs.We include in operating income the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. The value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including:•market prices for like new equipment;•wear and tear on the equipment;•time of year that the equipment is sold;•the supply used equipment on the market; and•general economic conditions.Any significant decline in the selling prices for used rental equipment could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, and cash flow. Our business is highly competitive.The agricultural and construction equipment distribution and rental industries are highly competitive and fragmented, with large numbers of companies operating on a regional or local scale. Historically, our competitors have competed 15Table of Contentsaggressively on the basis of pricing or inventory availability, resulting in decreased margins on our sales to the extent we choose to match our competitors' downward pricing. To the extent we choose not to match or remain within a reasonable competitive distance from our competitors' pricing, it could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may lose sales volume. In addition, to the extent CNH's competitors provide their dealers with more innovative or higher quality products, better customer financing, or have more effective marketing efforts, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected.If our acquisition plans are unsuccessful, we may not achieve our planned revenue growth.We believe a significant portion of our future growth will depend on our ability to acquire additional dealerships. Our ability to continue to grow through the acquisition of additional CNH geographic areas of responsibility and store locations or other businesses will be dependent upon the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable costs, our ability to compete effectively for available acquisition candidates and the availability of capital to complete the acquisitions. We may not successfully identify suitable targets, or if we do, we may not be able to close the transactions, or if we close the transactions, they may not be profitable. In addition, CNH's consent is required for the acquisition of any CNH dealership, and the consent of our lenders may be required for certain acquisitions. CNH typically evaluates management, performance and capitalization of a prospective acquirer in determining whether to consent to the sale of a CNH dealership. There can be no assurance that CNH or our lenders will consent to any or all acquisitions of dealerships that we may propose.If we are not able to successfully integrate newly-acquired dealerships, our financial performance may be adversely affected.Once an acquisition is completed, we face many other risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include incurring significantly higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses; failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships; disrupting our ongoing business; dissipating our management resources; failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; and impairing relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. To the extent we do not successfully avoid or overcome the risks or problems related to acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions also will have a significant impact on our financial position and capital needs, and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly results of operations. Acquisitions could include significant goodwill and intangible assets, which may result in future impairment charges that would reduce our stated earnings.Our international operations expose us to additional risks.We are currently operating dealership locations in Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and the Ukraine, and also engage in export business to other countries. In 2014, total International segment revenues were approximately 6.6% of our consolidated total revenue. As of January 31, 2014, total International segment assets were approximately 12.5% of our consolidated total assets.Our ability to achieve and maintain profitable growth in international markets is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory environments and economic conditions present in the countries in which we operate. Risks inherent in international operations include:•difficulties in implementing our business model in foreign markets;•costs and diversion of management attention related to oversight of international operations;•unexpected adverse changes may occur in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining import licenses;•unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur; •compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be burdensome;•compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U.S. laws that apply to the international operations of U.S. companies may be difficult and costly to implement and monitor;•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed may adversely affect the results of our operations, the value of our foreign assets and liabilities and our cash flows;•our operations and profitability in any particular country in which we operate could be affected by political or economic changes or instabilityThese factors, in addition to others that we have not anticipated, may negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations.The current political and economic instability in Ukraine could create short-term and long-term disruption in our Ukrainian operations. The current instability could cause liquidity problems for our customers which may result in credit losses of our outstanding receivable balances or cause our customers to delay or reduce their purchases of our products and services resulting in lower revenues and profitability for our operations. Such reduced purchasing by our customers could also cause our inventory levels to be higher than expected, contributing to increased carrying costs and reducing our return on assets. In 16Table of Contentsaddition, the current instability may affect our ability to secure new, or to continue existing, working capital loans at desired levels or cause such indebtedness to become more expensive. A reduction in borrowing capacity, absent associated reductions in inventory, could require us to make additional capital contributions to our Ukraine operations. The political and economic instability could also cause the Ukrainian government to impose currency exchange controls or to otherwise restrict our ability to recover our investments in our Ukrainian subsidiary. The stabilization of Ukraine’s economy and political structure will depend in large part on the assistance of the international community, which cannot be assured. Absent such stabilization, our long-term ability to profitably transact business in Ukraine could be adversely affected. We are exposed to customer credit risks.We extend credit to our customers, generally on an unsecured basis. Although we are not substantially dependent on any one customer and we have a system of credit management in place, the failure to collect a large receivable would have an adverse effect on our profitability. If we are unable to manage credit risk issues adequately, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. Delinquencies and credit losses generally would be expected to increase if there was a slowdown in the economic recovery or worsening of economic conditions.Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel.Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees, including the managers of our stores. Their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. The failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.We believe our success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of David Meyer, our Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer, and Peter Christianson, our President and Director. The employment relationships with both Mr. Meyer and Mr. Christianson are terminable by us or each of them at any time for any reason. The loss of the services of one or both of these persons and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.Our outstanding Senior Convertible Notes may cause dilution to our existing stockholders and may negatively affect our financial position and liquidity.On April 24, 2012, we issued $150 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Convertible Notes due 2019 (the "Senior Convertible Notes") pursuant to an indenture between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (the "Indenture"). The Senior Convertible Notes are convertible into common stock at the option of the holders under certain conditions. Upon conversion, we will pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of converted notes and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election, for any conversion obligation in excess thereof. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, the holders of the Senior Convertible Notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest.The Indenture provides for customary events of default, including, but not limited to, cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness of us and our subsidiaries. In the case of an event of default, all outstanding Senior Convertible Notes may become due and payable immediately without further action or notice.If we issue shares of our common stock to satisfy conversion obligations under the Senior Convertible Notes, our existing stockholders will experience dilution of their holdings of our stock. Repayment of the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash and, if applicable, satisfaction of our conversion obligations in cash may have a significant negative effect on our available capital resources and liquidity which may require us to borrow additional amounts pursuant to terms that are not favorable to us.In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Senior Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal balance of the Senior Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.Selling and renting agricultural and construction equipment and selling parts subjects us to liability risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and reputation.Products sold, rented or serviced by us may expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or property damage claims relating to the use of such products. Our product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover product liability claims. Such insurance may not continue to be available on economically reasonable terms. An uninsured or partially insured claim for which indemnification is not provided could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, if 17Table of Contentsany significant claims are made against us or against CNH or any of our other suppliers, our business may be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity.Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to its effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation.We are required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remedial actions or their impact on our operations. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements.Any disruption to or failure of our information systems may negatively affect our ability to monitor and control our operations.Our business processes, including marketing of equipment and support services, inventory and logistics, and finance largely depend upon the integrity of our information systems. We use an integrated business system for dealers in the construction or agriculture equipment business. Any disruptions to our information systems or the failure of such systems to operate as expected may adversely affect our operating results by limiting our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.