ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and in other reports that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The matters discussed in the risk factors, and additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and future growth prospects and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. 16 Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, our customers, suppliers and business. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption over the past several years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades, declines in asset valuations, inflation, reduced consumer spending and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to finance our operations, such conditions coupled with recessionary type economic conditions, have adversely affected our customers’ capital budgets, purchasing decisions and facilities managers and, therefore, have adversely affected our results of operations. In addition, some of our installer base of contractors have stopped doing business due to the challenging economic conditions, which has increased the cost and delayed the timing of installation of our products and thereby negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations will continue to be adversely affected to the extent these adverse financial market and general economic conditions continue to adversely affect our customers’ purchasing decisions and the availability of installers. Adverse market conditions have led to increasing duration of customer sales cycles, limitations on customer capital budgets, closure of facilities and the loss of key contacts due to workforce reductions at existing and prospective customers. The volatility and uncertainty in the financial and credit markets along with current political uncertainty has led many customers to adopt strategies for conserving cash, including limits on capital spending. Our HIF lighting systems are often purchased as capital assets and therefore are subject to capital availability. Uncertainty around such availability has led customers to delay purchase decisions, which has elongated the duration of our sales cycles. Along with limiting capital spending, some customers have reduced expenses by closing facilities and reducing workforces. As a result, facilities that were or may be considering installing our HIF lighting systems have closed or may close. Due to downsizings, key contacts and decision-makers at some of our customers have lost or may lose their jobs, which requires us to re-initiate the sales cycle with other personnel, further elongating the sales cycle. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, variability in our operating results, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of these factors. Our financial performance is dependent on our ability to execute on our growth strategy. Our fiscal 2013 operating plan and financial expectations are predicated upon our growth strategy, and our ability to achieve our desired growth depends on our execution in areas including proposal development, marketing, sales training, project management and our new telemarketing initiative, and our ability to expand our partner network rapidly, as well as other factors. If we are unable to successfully execute in any of these areas or on our growth strategy as a whole, our business and financial performance will likely be adversely affected. Our inability to retain key employees or protect our partner network could adversely affect our operations and our ability to execute on our operating plan and growth strategy. We rely upon the knowledge, experience and skills of key employees throughout our organization, and particularly in our sales group, that require technical knowledge or contacts in and knowledge of the industry. We also depend on our value-added reseller channels, including our partner network. If we are unable to retain key employees or protect the integrity of our partner network because of competition or, in the case of employees, inadequate compensation or other factors, our operations and our ability to execute our operating plan could be adversely affected. Our renewable energy technologies involve many risks and uncertainties and many new technologies do not become commercially profitable products, applications or services despite extensive development and commercialization efforts. In fiscal 2012, we continued the expansion that began in fiscal 2010 of our product and service offerings by providing our customers with alternative renewable energy systems, such as photovoltaic solar systems and wind energy systems through our Orion Engineered Systems division. This division continues to conduct research on various additional renewable energy technologies that we may be able to add to our menu of products, applications and services offered, making recommendations to our senior management regarding the technologies’ viability and developing commercialization tactics. 17 The process of developing and commercializing new products, applications and services, particularly relating to alternative renewable energy systems, is typically both time-consuming and costly and usually involves a high degree of business risk. We may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize new technologies in the form of new products, applications or services. This process may involve substantial expenditures in research and development, sourcing and marketing. Commercialization of new technological products, applications and services often requires a very long lead time. Because it is generally not possible to predict the amount of time required or the costs involved in achieving new product, application or service introduction objectives, actual development and commercialization costs may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated development and commercialization schedules may be extended. Developing new technological products, applications and services, and creating effective commercialization strategies for new renewable energy technologies, are subject to inherent risks that may include: • Unanticipated and/or substantial delays; • Unanticipated and/or substantially increased costs; • Unrecoverable and/or substantially increased expenses; • Technical, reliability, durability or quality problems, including potential warranty and/or product liability claims; • Insufficiency of dedicated or budgeted funds; • Inability to meet targeted cost or performance objectives; • Inability of our suppliers of new products to remain solvent; • Inability to satisfy industry standards or consumer expectations and needs; • Regulatory obstacles; • Competition; • Inability to prove the original concept; • Lack of demand; and • Diversion of our management’s and employees’ focus and/or attention. The occurrence of any one or more of these risks could cause us to incur substantial costs and expenses or even to abandon or substantially delay or change our strategy of exploring the addition of new alternative renewable energy technologies into our product, application and service offerings. Orion Engineered Systems may not be able to identify suitable new technologies, may invest too much in new technologies, or could fail to develop new products, applications or services successfully. Identifying suitable new alternative renewable energy technologies for addition into our product, application and service offerings may be difficult, and the failure to do so could harm our growth strategy. If we make an investment in one or more new alternative renewable energy technologies, we could have difficulty developing and commercializing it or integrating it into our product, application or service offerings. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses and/or capital expenditures. As a result, our failure to fully develop and commercialize potential new alternative renewable energy technologies or to integrate them effectively into our product, application and service offerings properly could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Orion Engineered System’s pursuit of solar photovoltaic and/or wind electricity generating technologies is subject to risks specific to the solar photovoltaic and/or wind industry. If we continue to expand our offerings of solar photovoltaic electricity generating technologies and/or wind electricity generating technologies into our product, application or service offerings, such business pursuits will involve risks specifically associated with such industries, including: • The market for solar photovoltaic and wind electricity generating technologies has been adversely affected by the recessionary economic conditions, and we cannot guarantee that demand will return or increase in the future. • The solar industry has experienced several high profile bankruptcies over the last eighteen months. Despite our efforts to research the financial health of our solar suppliers, future solvency concerns regarding our suppliers can negatively impact our ability to secure new customers and sell additional PV systems to existing customers. 18 • A variety of solar power, wind power and other renewable energy technologies may be currently under development by other companies that could result in higher or more effective product performance than the performance expected to be produced by any technology that we decide to offer. • Our ability to generate revenue and profitability from adding solar photovoltaic and/or wind electricity generating technologies into our product, application or service offerings is dependent on consumer acceptance and the economic feasibility of solar and/or wind generated energy. • A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or other alternate renewable energy sources may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and profitability from solar photovoltaic and/or wind generated energy technologies. • The reduction, elimination or expiration of government mandates and subsidies or economic or tax rebates, credits and/or incentives for alternative renewable energy systems would likely substantially reduce the demand for, and economic feasibility of, any solar photovoltaic and/or wind electricity generating products, applications or services and could materially reduce any prospects for our successfully introducing any new products, applications or services using such technologies. The occurrence of any one or more of these risks could cause us to incur substantial costs and expenses or even to abandon or delay our strategy with respect to these industries. We may not be able to obtain equity capital or debt financing necessary to effectively introduce and commercialize any new alternative renewable energy technologies identified by Orion Engineered Systems into our product, application and service offerings. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient to effectively introduce and commercialize any new alternative renewable energy technologies identified by Orion Engineered Systems into our product, application and service offerings. We may not be able to obtain sufficient equity capital and/or debt financing required to do so or we may not be able to obtain such equity capital or debt financing on acceptable terms or conditions. Factors affecting the availability to us of equity capital or debt financing on acceptable terms and conditions include: • The price, volatility and trading volume and history of our common stock. • Our current and future financial results and position. • The market’s view of our industry and products. • The perception in the equity and debt markets of our ability to execute our business plan or achieve our operating results expectations. Our inability to obtain the capital necessary to introduce new products to the market could have an adverse effect on our growth strategy and business operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are unable to compete successfully our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. We face strong competition primarily from manufacturers and distributors of energy management products and services, as well as from electrical contractors. We compete primarily on the basis of customer relationships, price, quality, energy efficiency, customer service and marketing support. Our products are in direct competition with high intensity discharge, or HID, technology, as well as other HIF and LED products and older fluorescent technology in the lighting systems retrofit market. Many of our competitors are better capitalized than we are, have strong existing customer relationships, greater name recognition, and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities. Competitors could focus their substantial resources on developing a competing business model or energy management products or services that may be potentially more attractive to customers than our products or services. In addition, we may face competition from other products or technologies that reduce demand for electricity. Our competitors may also offer energy management products and services at reduced prices in order to improve their competitive positions. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, require us to lower our prices in order to remain competitive, and reduce our revenue and profitability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 19 Our products use components and raw materials that may be subject to price fluctuations, shortages or interruptions of supply. We may be vulnerable to price increases for components or raw materials that we require for our products, including aluminum, copper, certain rare earth minerals, ballasts, power supplies and lamps. In particular, our cost of aluminum can be subject to commodity price fluctuation. Further, suppliers’ inventories of certain components that our products require may be limited and are subject to acquisition by others. We have had to purchase quantities of certain components that are critical to our product manufacturing and were in excess of our estimated near-term requirements as a result of supplier delivery constraints and concerns over component availability, and we may need to do so in the future. As a result, we have had, and may need to continue, to devote additional working capital to support a large amount of component and raw material inventory that may not be used over a reasonable period to produce saleable products, and we may be required to increase our excess and obsolete inventory reserves to provide for these excess quantities, particularly if demand for our products does not meet our expectations. Also, any shortages or interruptions in supply of our components or raw materials could disrupt our operations. If any of these events occurs, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our success is largely dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business or to maintain profitable operations. Our continued success depends upon the continued availability, contributions, skills, experience and effort of our senior management. We are particularly dependent on the services of Neal R. Verfuerth, our chief executive officer and principal founder, Michael J. Potts, our president and chief operating officer, and John Scribante, our president of Orion Engineered Systems division. Messrs. Verfuerth, Potts and Scribante have major responsibilities with respect to sales, engineering, product development, operations and executive administration. We do not have a formal succession plan in place for Messrs. Verfuerth, Potts and Scribante. Our current employment agreements with Messrs. Verfuerth, Potts and Scribante do not guarantee their respective services for a specified period of time. All of the current employment agreements with our senior management team may be terminated by the employee at any time and without notice. While all such agreements include noncompetition and confidentiality covenants, there can be no assurance that such provisions will be enforceable or adequately protect us. The loss of the services of either of these persons might impede our operations or the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives, and we may not be able to attract and retain individuals with the same or similar level of experience or expertise. Additionally, while we have key man insurance on the lives of Messrs. Verfuerth and Potts and other members of our senior management team, such insurance may not adequately compensate us for the loss of these individuals. The loss or interruption of the service of members of our senior management, particularly Messrs. Verfuerth, Potts or Scribante, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business, implement our strategy or achieve profitable operations. We have made a significant investment in inventory related to our wireless controls product offering, which is costly and, if not properly managed, may result in an inability to provide our products on a timely basis or in unforeseen valuation adjustments. Our wireless control inventories comprised approximately 50% of our total March 31, 2012 inventory balance of $30.5 million. The components for our wireless inventories are manufactured and assembled overseas and require longer delivery lead times. Suppliers require deposit payments at time of purchase order and suppliers also require volume commitments to secure production capacity. We maintain this significant investment in our wireless controls inventory in order to provide prompt and complete service to our customers. There can be no guarantees that our customers will purchase our wireless technologies or that unforeseen evolutions in technologies may render our inventories unsalable. Additionally, price changes or other circumstances could result in unforeseen valuation adjustments to such inventories, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We depend upon a limited number of customers in any given period to generate a substantial portion of our revenue and the loss of significant customers could have an adverse effect on our operations. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and our dependence on individual key customers can vary from period to period as a result of the significant size of some of our retrofit and multi-facility roll-out projects. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 31% and 44%, respectively, of our total revenue for fiscal 2011 and 2012. In fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, our top customer accounted for less than 8% and 9% of our total revenues, respectively. We expect large retrofit and roll-out projects and large single location solar projects to continue to be a significant component of our total revenue. As a result, we may experience more customer concentration in any given future period. The loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given future period. 20 We depend on a limited number of key suppliers and the loss of a key supplier could have an adverse effect on our operations. We depend on certain key suppliers for the raw materials and key components that we require for our current products, including sheet, coiled and specialty reflective aluminum, power supplies, ballasts and lamps. In particular, we buy most of our specialty reflective aluminum from a single supplier and we also purchase most of our ballast and lamp components from a single supplier. Additionally, while we purchase solar panels from several vendors, we have experienced business disruption in the past as solar suppliers have gone out of business. Purchases of components from our current primary ballast and lamp supplier constituted 22% and 14% of our total cost of revenue in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, respectively. If these components become unavailable, or our relationships with suppliers become strained, particularly as relates to our primary suppliers, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Increasing use of our OTA financing program could require us to seek additional debt financing and/or equity capital and expose us to financing risk and additional customer credit risk and impact our financial results. Our financing program, the Orion Throughput Agreements, or OTA, is an installment based payment plan for our customers in contrast to our traditional cash terms. This financing program may subject us to additional credit risk as we do not have a long history or experience related to longer term credit decision making. Poor credit decisions or customer defaults could result in increases to our allowances for doubtful accounts and/or write-offs of accounts receivable and could have material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Over the past 12 months, we have financed our OTA contracts through a blend of bank debt and through the non-recourse sale of the equipment to third party equipment finance providers. If we choose to increase the amount of OTA contracts funded by debt, we may not be able to obtain such debt financing on acceptable terms or conditions. Any national economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could reduce our access to capital necessary for these programs. The agreements and their increased use also may subject us to additional credit risk as we do not have a long history or experience related to longer term credit decision making. Product liability claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face exposure to product liability claims in the event that our energy management products fail to perform as expected or cause bodily injury or property damage. Since the majority of our products use electricity, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. Particularly because our products often incorporate new technologies or designs, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or result in negative publicity about our business or adversely affect our customer relations. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. A successful product liability claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The success of our business depends on the market acceptance of our energy management products and services. Our future success depends on continued commercial acceptance of our energy management products and services. If we are unable to convince current and potential customers of the advantages of our HIF and LED lighting systems and energy management products and services, then our ability to sell our HIF and LED lighting systems and energy management products and services will be limited. In addition, because the market for energy management products and services is rapidly evolving, we may not be able to accurately assess the size of the market, and we may have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. If the market for our HIF and LED lighting systems and energy management products and services does not continue to develop, or if the market does not accept our products, then our ability to grow our business could be limited and we may not be able to increase our revenue or achieve profitability. We depend on our ability to develop new products and services. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid market and technological changes, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving government, industry and utility standards and regulations. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to design and manufacture new products and services. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new products or services that keep pace with technological or industry changes, satisfy changes in customer demands or comply with present or emerging government and industry regulations and technology standards. 21 We may pursue acquisitions and investments in new product lines, businesses or technologies that involve numerous risks, which could disrupt our business or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, new product lines, businesses or technologies to expand our current capabilities. We have limited experience in making such acquisitions or investments. Acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs or capital expenditure requirements and reduce the value of the acquired product line, business or technology. For example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. The process of negotiating acquisitions and integrating acquired products, services, technologies, personnel, or businesses might result in significant transaction costs, operating difficulties or unexpected expenditures, and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. If we are successful in completing an acquisition, we may not be able to integrate the acquired product line, business or technology into our existing business and products, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments may divert our management’s attention, require considerable cash outlays and require substantial additional expenses that could harm our existing operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or incur amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could dilute the interests of our shareholders or adversely affect our profitability. Our inability to protect our intellectual property, or our involvement in damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or result in the loss of use of the product or service. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We own United States patents and patent applications for some of our products, systems, business methods and technologies. We offer no assurance about the degree of protection which existing or future patents may afford us. Likewise, we offer no assurance that our patent applications will result in issued patents, that our patents will be upheld if challenged, that competitors will not develop similar or superior business methods or products outside the protection of our patents, that competitors will not infringe upon our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. Effective protection of our United States patents may be unavailable or limited in jurisdictions outside the United States, as the intellectual property laws of foreign countries sometimes offer less protection or have onerous filing requirements. In addition, because some patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, we could adopt a technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, and such technology could infringe a third party’s patent. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise learn of our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our company and our products and services from our competitors. Some of our trademarks may conflict with trademarks of other companies. Failure to obtain trademark registrations could limit our ability to protect our trademarks and impede our sales and marketing efforts. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. In addition, third parties may bring infringement and other claims that could be time-consuming and expensive to defend. Also, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our products, services or business methods and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. It is possible that our intellectual property rights may not be valid or that we may infringe upon existing or future proprietary rights of others. Any successful infringement claims could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling products, services and business methods and require us to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, re-brand our company or products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 22 If our information technology systems fail, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. We rely on those systems generally to manage the day-to-day operation of our business, manage relationships with our customers, maintain our research and development data and maintain our financial and accounting records. We recently replaced our then-existing enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. Our ERP implementation project has consumed, and may continue to consume, significant business resources, including personnel and financial resources, and is not yet fully complete. The failure of our information technology systems, our inability to successfully maintain, enhance and/or replace our information technology systems, or any compromise of the integrity or security of the data we generate from our information technology systems, could adversely affect our results of operations, disrupt our business and product development and make us unable, or severely limit our ability, to respond to customer demands. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • employee or other theft; • attacks by computer viruses or hackers; • power outages; and • computer systems, internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any interruption of our information technology systems could result in decreased revenue, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, customer dissatisfaction and potential lawsuits, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our retrofitting process frequently involves responsibility for the removal and disposal of components containing hazardous materials. When we retrofit a customer’s facility, we typically assume responsibility for removing and disposing of its existing lighting fixtures. Certain components of these fixtures typically contain trace amounts of mercury and other hazardous materials. Older components may also contain trace amounts of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs. We currently rely on contractors to remove the components containing such hazardous materials at the customer job site. The contractors then arrange for the disposal of such components at a licensed disposal facility. Failure by such contractors to remove or dispose of the components containing these hazardous materials in a safe, effective and lawful manner could give rise to liability for us, or could expose our workers or other persons to these hazardous materials, which could result in claims against us. The cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to water, the remediation of contaminated properties and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, and exposure to, waste and other materials, as well as laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. These laws and regulations frequently change, and the violation of these laws or regulations can lead to substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities. The operation of our manufacturing facility entails risks in these areas and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 23 We expect our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could become subject to securities litigation. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely vary from quarter to quarter in the future. For example, our first fiscal quarter typically reflects operating results that do not compare favorably with our other fiscal quarters. You should not rely upon the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. If the price of our common stock is volatile or falls significantly below our current price, we may be the target of securities litigation. If we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs, management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, and our reputation could be damaged, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation based upon ownership changes. As of March 31, 2012, we had aggregate federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $7.0 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $4.5 million. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such change. We believe that past issuances and transfers of our stock caused an ownership change in fiscal 2007 that may affect the timing of the use of our net operating loss carryforwards, but we do not believe the ownership change affects the use of the full amount of our net operating loss carryforwards. As a result, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such ownership change to offset taxable income will be subject to limitations in a particular year, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us. In fiscal 2008, utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards was limited to $3.0 million. For fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012, utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards was not limited. Our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to a valuation adjustment if we do not maintain our profitability. As of March 31, 2012, we had aggregate federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $7.0 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $4.5 million. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and related deferred tax assets is based upon our ability to generate future taxable income. Our ability to generate future taxable income can be impacted by many circumstances. If we fail to maintain our recent profitability, our net operating loss carryforwards and related deferred tax assets may be subject to a valuation adjustment. We are subject to financial and operating covenants in our credit agreement and any failure to comply with such covenants could result in our being unable to borrow under the agreement and other negative consequences. Our credit agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., contains certain financial covenants including minimum net income requirements and requirements that we maintain net worth ratios at prescribed levels. The credit agreement also contains certain restrictions on our ability to make capital or lease expenditures over prescribed limits, incur additional indebtedness, consolidate or merge, guarantee obligations of third parties, make loans or advances, declare or pay any dividend or distribution on our stock, redeem or repurchase shares of our stock, or pledge assets. The credit agreement also contains other customary covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the financial and other covenants in the credit agreement. Our failure to comply with these covenants could cause us to be unable to borrow under the agreement and may constitute an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the maturity of any indebtedness then outstanding under the agreement, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. Due to our cash and cash equivalent position and the fact that we have no borrowings currently outstanding, we do not currently anticipate that our failure to comply with the covenants under the credit agreement would have a significant impact on our ability to meet our financial obligations in the near term. Our failure to comply with such covenants, however, would be a disclosable event and may be perceived negatively. Such perception could adversely affect the market price for our common stock and our ability to obtain financing in the future. The failure to establish and maintain internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. As of March 31, 2012, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our internal controls were not effective due to the certain material weaknesses. The failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and in a timely manner or to detect and prevent fraud and could also cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock. 24 The restatements of our historical financial statements has consumed a significant amount of our time and resources and may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and stock price. Previously, we have restated our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, our first three quarters of fiscal 2010 and 2011 and our first two quarters of fiscal 2012. The restatement process was highly time and resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management and significant legal and accounting costs. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that we will have no inquiries from the SEC regarding our restated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our resources. Further, many companies that have been required to restate their historical financial statements have experienced a decline in stock price and shareholder lawsuits related thereto. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If these analysts do not continue to provide adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future sales of our common stock in the public market by our executive officers and directors. Our executive officers and directors may from time to time sell shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise. We cannot predict the size or the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock by our executive officers and directors, or the perception of such sales, would have on the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions included in the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation or bylaws and the common share purchase rights that accompany shares of our common stock could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could adversely impact the value of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or management. A change of control of our company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by certain provisions of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law. These provisions generally restrict a broad range of business combinations between a Wisconsin corporation and a shareholder owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, including our staggered board of directors and our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock, as well as the provisions of our amended and restated bylaws and Wisconsin law, could make it more difficult for shareholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Each currently outstanding share of our common stock includes, and each newly issued share of our common stock will include, a common share purchase right. The rights are attached to and trade with the shares of common stock and generally are not exercisable. The rights will become exercisable if a person or group acquires, or announces an intention to acquire, 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. The rights have some anti-takeover effects and generally will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire control of us without conditioning the offer on either redemption of the rights or amendment of the rights to prevent this dilution. The rights could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control. In addition, our employment arrangements with senior management provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of stock options, upon a change of control. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. These provisions may also discourage or prevent a change of control or result in a lower price per share paid to our shareholders. 25 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 