ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and in other reports that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The matters discussed in the risk factors, and additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and future growth prospects and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We have a limited operating history, have previously incurred net losses, and only recently achieved profitability that we may not be able to sustain. We began operating in April 1996 and first achieved a full fiscal year of profitability in fiscal 2003. However, we incurred net losses attributable to common shareholders of $2.3 million and $1.6 million in fiscal 2005 and 2006, respectively, before achieving net income attributable to common shareholders of $0.4 million in fiscal 2007 and $3.4 million in fiscal 2008. As a result of our limited operating history, we have limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our business, strategies, performance, prospects, revenue or profitability potential or an investment in our common stock. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of our limited operating history and the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies at our stage of development and in our market. Initially, our net losses were principally driven by start-up costs, the costs of developing our technology and research and development costs. More recently, our net losses were principally driven by increased sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses, as well as inefficiencies due to excess manufacturing capacity in fiscal 2005 and 2006. We expect to incur increased general and administrative, sales and marketing, and research and development expenses in the near term. These increased operating costs may cause us to recognize reduced net income or incur net losses, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our revenue, sustain our revenue growth rate, expand our customer base or remain profitable. Furthermore, increased cost of revenue, warranty claims, stock-based compensation costs or interest expense on our outstanding debt and on any debt that we incur in the future could contribute to reduced net income or net losses. As a result, even if we significantly increase our revenue, we may incur reduced net income or net losses in the future. 15 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are unable to compete successfully our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. We face strong competition primarily from manufacturers and distributors of energy management products and services, as well as from electrical contractors. We compete primarily on the basis of customer relationships, price, quality, energy efficiency, customer service and marketing support. Our products are in direct competition primarily with high intensity discharge, or HID, technology, as well as other HIF products and older fluorescent technology in the lighting systems retrofit market. Many of our competitors are better capitalized than we are, have strong existing customer relationships, greater name recognition, and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities. Competitors could focus their substantial resources on developing a competing business model or energy management products or services that may be potentially more attractive to customers than our products or services. In addition, we may face competition from other products or technologies that reduce demand for electricity. Our competitors may also offer energy management products and services at reduced prices in order to improve their competitive positions. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, require us to lower our prices in order to remain competitive, and reduce our revenue and profitability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our success is largely dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business or to maintain profitable operations. Our continued success depends upon the continued availability, contributions, skills, experience and effort of our senior management. We are particularly dependent on the services of Neal R. Verfuerth, our president, chief executive officer and principal founder. Mr. Verfuerth has major responsibilities with respect to sales, engineering, product development and executive administration. We do not have a formal succession plan in place for Mr. Verfuerth. Our current employment agreement with Mr. Verfuerth does not guarantee his services for a specified period of time. All of the current employment agreements with our senior management team may be terminated by the employee at any time and without notice. While all such agreements include noncompetition and confidentiality covenants, there can be no assurance that such provisions will be enforceable or adequately protect us. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede our operations or the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives, and we may not be able to attract and retain individuals with the same or similar level of experience or expertise. Additionally, while we have key man insurance on the lives of Mr. Verfuerth and other members of our senior management team, such insurance may not adequately compensate us for the loss of these individuals. The loss or interruption of the service of members of our senior management, particularly Mr. Verfuerth, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business, implement our strategy or maintain profitable operations. The success of our business depends on the market acceptance of our energy management products and services. Our future success depends on commercial acceptance of our energy management products and services. If we are unable to convince current and potential customers of the advantages of our HIF lighting systems and energy management products and services, then our ability to sell our HIF lighting systems and energy management products and services will be limited. In addition, because the market for energy management products and services is rapidly evolving, we may not be able to accurately assess the size of the market, and we may have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. If the market for our HIF lighting systems and energy management products and services does not continue to develop, or if the market does not accept our products, then our ability to grow our business could be limited and we may not be able to increase or maintain our revenue or profitability. 16 Table of Contents Sales of our products and services are dependent upon our customers’ capital budgets. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from sales of HIF lighting systems to customers who may experience constraints in their capital spending due to other competing uses for capital or other factors. Our HIF lighting systems are typically purchased as capital assets and therefore are subject to review as part of a customer’s capital budgeting process. Customers may decline or defer purchases of our products and our related services as a result of many factors, including mergers and acquisitions, regulatory decisions, rising interest rates, lower electricity costs, the availability of lower cost or other alternative products or solutions or general economic downturns. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, variability in our operating results, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of these factors. Our products use components and raw materials that may be subject to price fluctuations, shortages or interruptions of supply. We may be vulnerable to price increases for components or raw materials that we require for our products, including aluminum, ballasts, power supplies and lamps. In particular, our cost of aluminum can be subject to commodity price fluctuation. Further, suppliers’ inventories of certain components that our products require may be limited and are subject to acquisition by others. We may purchase quantities of these items that are in excess of our estimated near-term requirements. As a result, we may need to devote additional working capital to support a large amount of component and raw material inventory that may not be used over a reasonable period to produce saleable products, and we may be required to increase our excess and obsolete inventory reserves to provide for these excess quantities, particularly if demand for our products does not meet our expectations. Also, any shortages or interruptions in supply of our components or raw materials could disrupt our operations. If any of these events occurs, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of key suppliers. We depend on certain key suppliers for the raw materials and key components that we require for our current products, including sheet, coiled and specialty reflective aluminum, power supplies, ballasts and lamps. In particular, we buy most of our specialty reflective aluminum from a single supplier and we also purchase most of our ballast and lamp components from a single supplier. Purchases of components from our current primary ballast and lamp supplier constituted 26% and 28% of our total cost of revenue in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008, respectively. If these components become unavailable, or our relationships with suppliers become strained, particularly as relates to our primary suppliers, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We experienced component quality problems related to certain suppliers in the past, and our current suppliers may not deliver satisfactory components in the future. In fiscal 2003 through fiscal 2005, we experienced higher than normal failure rates with certain components purchased from two suppliers. These quality issues led to an increase in warranty claims from our customers and we recorded warranty expenses of approximately $0.1 million and $0.7 million in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, respectively. We may experience quality problems with suppliers in the future, which could decrease our gross margin and profitability, lengthen our sales cycles, adversely affect our customer relations and future sales prospects and subject our business to negative publicity. Additionally, we sometimes satisfy warranty claims even if they are not covered by our general warranty policy as a customer accommodation. If we were to experience quality problems with the ballasts or lamps purchased from our primary ballast and lamp supplier, these adverse consequences could be magnified, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend upon a limited number of customers in any given period to generate a substantial portion of our revenue. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and our dependence on individual key customers can vary from period to period as a result of the significant size of some of our retrofit and multi-facility roll-out 17 Table of Contents projects. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 39% and 46%, respectively, of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and 2008. No single customer accounted for more than 9% of our revenue in any prior fiscal years, although Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. accounted for approximately 17% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. We expect large retrofit and roll-out projects to become a greater component of our total revenue in the near term. As a result, we may experience more customer concentration in any given future period. The loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given future period. Product liability claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face exposure to product liability claims in the event that our energy management products fail to perform as expected or cause bodily injury or property damage. Since the majority of our products use electricity, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. Particularly because our products often incorporate new technologies or designs, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or result in negative publicity about our business or adversely affect our customer relations. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. A successful product liability claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our ability to develop new products and services. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid market and technological changes, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving government, industry and utility standards and regulations. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to design and manufacture new products and services. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new products or services that keep pace with technological or industry changes, satisfy changes in customer demands or comply with present or emerging government and industry regulations and technology standards. We may pursue acquisitions and investments in new product lines, businesses or technologies that involve numerous risks, which could disrupt our business or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may make acquisitions of, or investments in, new product lines, businesses or technologies to expand our current capabilities. We have limited experience in making such acquisitions or investments. Acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs or capital expenditure requirements and reduce the value of the acquired product line, business or technology. For example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. The process of negotiating acquisitions and integrating acquired products, services, technologies, personnel, or businesses might result in significant transaction costs, operating difficulties or unexpected expenditures, and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. If we are successful in consummating an acquisition, we may not be able to integrate the acquired product line, business or technology into our existing business and products, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments may divert our management’s attention, require considerable cash outlays and require substantial additional expenses that could harm our existing operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or incur amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could dilute the interests of our shareholders or adversely affect our profitability. We are currently subject to securities class action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In February and March 2008, purported class action lawsuits were filed against us, certain of our executive officers, all members of our Board of Directors and certain underwriters from our December 2007 initial public 18 Table of Contents offering of our common stock by investors alleging violations of the Securities Act of 1933. While we believe we have substantial legal and factual defenses to each of the claims in these lawsuits and we will vigorously defend the lawsuits, the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict and quantify, and the defense against such claims or actions can be costly. In addition to decreasing sales and profitability, diverting financial and management resources and general business disruption, we may suffer from adverse publicity that could harm our brand, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately held liable. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, publicity about these claims may harm our reputation or prospects and adversely affect our results. Our inability to protect our intellectual property, or our involvement in damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or result in the loss of use of the product or service. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We own United States patents and patent applications for some of our products, systems, business methods and technologies. We offer no assurance about the degree of protection which existing or future patents may afford us. Likewise, we offer no assurance that our patent applications will result in issued patents, that our patents will be upheld if challenged, that competitors will not develop similar or superior business methods or products outside the protection of our patents, that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. Because some patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, we could adopt a technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, and such technology could infringe a third party patent. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise learn of our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our company and our products and services from our competitors. Some of our trademarks may conflict with trademarks of other companies. Failure to obtain trademark registrations could limit our ability to protect our trademarks and impede our sales and marketing efforts. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. In addition, third parties may bring infringement and other claims that could be time-consuming and expensive to defend. In addition, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our products, services or business methods and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. It is possible that our intellectual property rights may not be valid or that we may infringe existing or future proprietary rights of others. Any successful infringement claims could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling products, services and business methods and require us to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, re-brand our company or products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 19 Table of Contents If the price of electricity decreases, there may be less demand for our products and services. Demand for our products and services is highly dependent on the continued high cost of electricity. Increased competition in wholesale and retail electricity markets has resulted in greater price competition in those markets. If the price of electricity decreases, either regionally or nationally, then there may be less demand for our products and services, which could impact our ability to grow our business or increase or maintain our revenue or profitability and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may face additional competition if government subsidies and utility incentives for renewable energy increase or if such sources of energy are mandated. Several states have adopted a variety of government subsidies and utility incentives to allow renewable energy sources, such as biofuels, wind and solar energy, to compete with currently less expensive conventional sources of energy, such as fossil fuels. We may face additional competition from providers of renewable energy sources if government subsidies and utility incentives for those sources of energy increase or if such sources of energy are mandated. Additionally, the availability of subsidies and other incentives from utilities or government agencies to install alternative renewable energy sources may negatively impact our customers’ desire to purchase our products and services, or may be utilized by our existing or new competitors to develop a competing business model or products or services that may be potentially more attractive to customers than ours, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If our information technology systems fail, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. We rely on those systems generally to manage the day-to-day operation of our business, manage relationships with our customers, maintain our research and development data and maintain our financial and accounting records. The failure of our information technology systems, our inability to successfully maintain and enhance our information technology systems, or any compromise of the integrity or security of the data we generate from our information technology systems, could adversely affect our results of operations, disrupt our business and product development and make us unable, or severely limit our ability, to respond to customer demands. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • employee or other theft; • attacks by computer viruses or hackers; • power outages; and • computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any interruption of our information technology systems could result in decreased revenue, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, customer dissatisfaction and potential lawsuits, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We own and operate an industrial property that we purchased in 2004 and, if any environmental contamination is discovered, we could be responsible for remediation of the property. We own our manufacturing and distribution facility located at an industrial site. We purchased this property from an adjacent aluminum rolling mill and cookware manufacturing facility in 2004. As part of the transaction to purchase this facility, we agreed to hold the seller harmless from most claims for environmental remediation or contamination. Accordingly, if environmental contamination is discovered at our facility and we are required to remediate the property, our recourse against the prior owners may be limited. Any such potential remediation could be costly and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 20 Table of Contents The cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to water, the remediation of contaminated properties and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, and exposure to, waste and other materials, as well as laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. These laws and regulations frequently change, and the violation of these laws or regulations can lead to substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities. The operation of our manufacturing facility entails risks in these areas and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our retrofitting process frequently involves responsibility for the removal and disposal of components containing hazardous materials. When we retrofit a customer’s facility, we typically assume responsibility for removing and disposing of its existing lighting fixtures. Certain components of these fixtures typically contain trace amounts of mercury and other hazardous materials. Older components may also contain trace amounts of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs. We currently rely on contractors to remove the components containing such hazardous materials at the customer job site. The contractors then arrange for the disposal of such components at a licensed disposal facility. Failure by such contractors to remove or dispose of the components containing these hazardous materials in a safe, effective and lawful manner could give rise to liability for us, or could expose our workers or other persons to these hazardous materials, which could result in claims against us. If we are unable to manage our anticipated revenue growth effectively, our operations, and profitability could be adversely affected. We intend to undertake a number of strategies in an effort to grow our revenue. If we are successful, our revenue growth may place significant strain on our limited resources. To properly manage any future revenue growth, we must continue to improve our management, operational, administrative, accounting and financial reporting systems and expand, train and manage our employee base, which may involve significant expenditures and increased operating costs. Due to our limited resources and experience, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and adequately train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our anticipated revenue growth effectively, the quality of our customer care may suffer, we may experience customer dissatisfaction, reduced future revenue or increased warranty claims, and our expenses could substantially and disproportionately increase. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to obtain additional capital as needed in the future, our ability to grow our revenue could be limited and we may be unable to pursue our current and future business strategies. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of our revenue growth, our introduction of new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services, and our expansion of sales, marketing and product development activities. In addition, we may consider acquisitions of product lines, businesses or technologies in an attempt to grow our business, which could require significant capital and could increase our capital expenditures related to future operation of the acquired business or technology. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all, and, as a result, we may be unable to expand our business or continue to pursue our current and future business strategies. Additionally, if we raise funds through debt financing, we may become subject to additional covenant restrictions and incur increased interest expense and principal payments. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or securities convertible into equity, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents We expect our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could become subject to securities litigation. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely vary from quarter to quarter in the future. You should not rely upon the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. If the price of our common stock is volatile or falls significantly below our initial public offering price, we may be the target of securities litigation. If we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs, management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, and our reputation could be damaged, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards will be subject to limitation. As of March 31, 2008, we had aggregate federal net operating loss carryforwards of $1.8 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $2.3 million. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such change. We believe that past issuances and transfers of our stock caused an ownership change in fiscal 2007 that may affect the timing of the use of our net operating loss carryforwards, but we do not believe the ownership change affects the use of the full amount of our net operating loss carryforwards. As a result, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such ownership change to offset taxable income will be subject to limitations in a particular year, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us. For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008, utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards was limited to $3.0 million. Our common stock has only recently been publicly traded and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. Prior to our December 2007 IPO, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. An active public trading market may not be sustained. The market price of our common stock will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including: • fluctuations in our financial performance; • economic and stock market conditions generally and specifically as they may impact us, participants in our industry or comparable companies; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts following our common stock or comparable companies; • earnings and other announcements by, and changes in market evaluations of, us, participants in our industry or comparable companies; • changes in business or regulatory conditions affecting us, participants in our industry or comparable companies; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • announcements or implementation by our competitors or us of acquisitions, technological innovations or new products, or other strategic actions by our competitors; or • trading volume of our common stock or the sale of stock by our management team, directors or principal shareholders. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is too low. The lack of an active trading market may result in the loss of research coverage by securities analysts. Moreover, we cannot 22 Table of Contents provide any assurance that any securities analysts will maintain research coverage of our company and shares of our common stock. If our future quarterly operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If these analysts do not continue to provide adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Our failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or to prevent or detect material misstatements in our annual or interim consolidated financial statements in the future could result in inaccurate financial reporting, sanctions or securities litigation, or could otherwise harm our business. As a public company, we are required to comply with the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, regarding internal control over financial reporting. The process of becoming compliant with Section 404 may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses, as well as increased independent auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. We are required to be compliant under Section 404 by the end of fiscal 2009, and at that time our management will be required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and we will be required to deliver an attestation report of our auditors on our management’s assessment of our internal controls. Completing documentation of our internal control system and financial processes, remediation of control deficiencies and management testing of internal controls will require substantial effort by us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the required management assessment by our reporting deadline. Failure to implement these changes timely, effectively or efficiently, could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. In connection with the audit of our fiscal 2008 consolidated financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm identified certain significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. These identified significant deficiencies included (i) our lack of segregation of certain key duties; (ii) our need for enhanced restrictions on user access to certain of our software programs; (iii) the necessity for us to implement an enhanced project tracking/deferred revenue accounting system to recognize the complexities of our business processes and, ultimately, the recognition of revenue and deferred revenue; and (iv) our need for improved financial statement closing and reporting processes. All of these significant deficiencies identified in connection with the audit of our fiscal 2008 consolidated financial statements were previously identified as significant deficiencies in connection with the audit of our fiscal 2007 consolidated financial statements. We may not be able to remediate these significant deficiencies in a timely manner, which may subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or the Nasdaq Global Market, and cause investors to lose confidence in our financial information, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to significantly decrease. [See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Internal Control over Financial Reporting.”] If we are unable to maintain effective control over financial reporting, such conclusion would be disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending March 31, 2009. In the future, we may identify material weaknesses and significant deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, we will not be able to conclude that we have and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered accounting firm may not be able to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over 23 Table of Contents financial reporting. As a result, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or the Nasdaq Global Market, and investors may lose confidence in our financial information, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to significantly decrease. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future sales of our common stock in the public market. Our executive officers and directors and most of our stockholders entered into lock-up agreements in connection with our IPO, pursuant to which they agreed, subject to certain exceptions and extensions, not to sell or transfer, directly or indirectly, any shares of our common stock (including any securities convertible or exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of our common stock) for a certain period of time from the date of our final prospectus related to our IPO or, with respect to certain persons and subject to certain exceptions and extensions, to make any demand or exercise any registration rights during such period with respect to such shares. This lock-up period expired on June 15, 2008, and such persons are currently able to sell their shares and, with respect to certain persons, exercise registration rights to cause them to be registered. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares of our common stock, or the perception of such sales or issuances, would have on the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions included in the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law and provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation or bylaws could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could adversely impact the value of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or management. A change of control of our company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by certain provisions of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law. These provisions generally restrict a broad range of business combinations between a Wisconsin corporation and a shareholder owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, including our staggered board of directors and our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock, as well as the provisions of our amended and restated bylaws and Wisconsin law, could make it more difficult for shareholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. In addition, our employment arrangements with senior management provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of stock options, upon a change of control. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. These provisions may also discourage or prevent a change of control or result in a lower price per share paid to our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 