ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in this forward-looking statements made in this report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. If any of the circumstances or events described below actually arise or occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common units and the trading price of our common units could decline. Risks Inherent in Our Business We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus each quarter, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which we estimate will average approximately $36 to $37 million per year over the three years ended December 31, 2010 based on the average remaining life of our existing vessels assuming that the optional vessels are acquired or deliver in accordance with the current schedule. These capital expenditures include expenditures for drydocking our vessels, modifying our vessels and acquiring new vessels to replace existing vessels as they reach the end of their useful lives. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: · the cost of shipyard labor and materials; · customer requirements to modify the vessels; · increases in the size of our fleet or the cost of replacement vessels; and · governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment. These capital expenditures will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unit holders. In addition, our actual maintenance capital expenditures will vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the number of vessels drydocked during that quarter. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus each quarter to reduce fluctuations in operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the board of directors of our general partner at least once a year, provided that any change must be approved by our conflicts committee. In years when estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unit holders will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures exceed our previous estimates. 19 Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to maintain our vessels tend to increase and become harder to estimate as a vessel becomes older. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our vessels will increase as they age. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional capital expenditures on these older vessels. The capacity of our fleet will be reduced when four of our vessels are phased-out due to OPA 90. Delays or the failure in the delivery of newbuilds we have agreed to bareboat charter will result in the failure to replace this capacity and the reduction of our operating results. The cost of bringing certain of our vessels into compliance with OPA 90 will be significant and may cause us to reduce the amount of our cash distributions or prevent us from increasing the amount of our cash distributions. OPA 90 provides for the scheduled phase-out of all single-hull product carriers and barges carrying oil in U.S. waters. This law will force the retirement of these vessels unless they are retrofitted with a double hull. Our four single-hull product carriers are due to be phased-out according to the following schedule: Vessel Name OPA 90 Retrofit/Phase-out Date Overseas Philadelphia May 2012 Overseas Galena Bay October 2012 Overseas Puget Sound May 2013 Overseas New Orleans June 2013 The bareboat charters for Overseas Philadelphia and Overseas New Orleans expire in October 2011 and November 2011, respectively, at which time we plan to return these product carriers to their owner as they are poor candidates for retrofitting due to their size. Overseas Galena Bay and Overseas Puget Sound are better candidates for retrofitting because they are larger, but we have not yet decided whether we will double-hull these vessels. We will base our final decision on the cost of shipyard work for retrofitting these vessels, market conditions, charter rates, the availability and cost of financing and other customary factors governing investment decisions. If it is not economical for us to retrofit these vessels, it will be necessary for us to take them out of service transporting petroleum-based products. Although we have agreed to bareboat charter newbuild product carriers from subsidiaries of Aker American Shipping, Inc. (“Aker”), which could replace the four product carriers that may be retired due to OPA 90, there is no assurance that Aker will complete the construction of these vessels. In the event that Aker does not deliver any or all of these vessels, the capacity of our fleet will be reduced, which will adversely affect our operating results and the amount of cash available for distribution. In order to bring our only single-hulled ATB (OSG 243) into compliance with OPA 90, it must be retrofitted with a double hull. We estimate that the cost will be approximately $30 million, of which approximately $4 million remains to be spent. If we decide to retrofit Overseas Galena Bay and Overseas Puget Sound, the board of directors of our general partner, with approval by the conflicts committee, may elect to increase our estimated maintenance capital expenditures, which would reduce our operating surplus and our cash available for distribution. We intend to finance the purchase of the newbuild ATBs for which we have options to purchase from OSG with a combination of debt and equity securities. Depending on how we finance the acquisition of these ATBs, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our unitholders could suffer dilution of their holdings. In addition, if we expand the size of our fleet, we generally will be required to make significant installment payments for newbuild vessels prior to their delivery and generation of revenue. We intend to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet. We have options to purchase from OSG up to six newbuild ATBs to be constructed by Bender Shipbuilding & Repair Co., Inc. (“Bender”). The total delivered cost of a newbuild 347,000 barrel/12,000 horsepower ATB is approximately $100 million and the total delivered cost of a newbuild 290,000 barrel/12,000 horsepower ATB is approximately $95 million. The actual purchase price to be paid upon the exercise of these options will be subject to negotiation with OSG and the approval of our conflicts committee. 20 OSG is currently incurring all costs for the construction and delivery of the six newbuild ATBs. Upon exercise of any of our six options, we could finance the purchase in whole or in part by issuing additional common units, which would dilute your ownership interest in us. We could also use cash from operations, incur borrowings or issue debt securities to fund these capital expenditures. Use of cash from operations will reduce cash available for distributions. Our ability to obtain bank financing or issue debt securities may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing and adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions, contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of such financing could limit our ability to pay cash distributions. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. If we purchase additional newbuilds, it is likely that we will be required to make installment payments prior to their delivery. We typically must pay approximately 5% of the purchase price of a vessel upon signing the purchase contract, even though delivery of the completed vessel will not occur until much later (approximately two and a half years for current orders). If we finance these acquisition costs by issuing debt or equity securities, we will increase the aggregate amount of interest (in the case of debt) or cash required to pay the minimum quarterly distributions (in the case of units) we must make prior to generating cash from the newbuilds. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels or construct or purchase new vessels. Our ability to acquire additional newbuild product carriers may be limited. While we have a commercial relationship with Aker and its affiliate, Aker Philadelphia Shipyard, Inc. (“APSI”) through our bareboat charter of newbuild product carriers from Aker, no assurance can be given that we or OSG will continue such relationship with Aker or APSI. If the relationship with Aker ends, our ability to acquire additional Jones Act compliant newbuild product carriers (other than the newbuild product carriers that have been agreed to be transferred to us and those that we have the option to acquire) on commercially attractive terms may be adversely affected because there is a limited number of U.S. shipyards that are capable of constructing product carriers. Such a result could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. OSG’s ability to obtain business from the Military Sealift Command (“MSC”) or other U.S. government agencies may be adversely affected by a determination by the MSC that OSG is not presently responsible for a single contract. OSG Product Tankers, LLC (“Product Tankers”), our wholly owned indirect subsidiary, participated in a Request for Proposals issued by the MSC, an agency of the United States Department of the Navy, to time charter to the MSC two Jones Act compliant product carriers. On July 6, 2007, the MSC advised Product Tankers that the MSC could not find Product Tankers presently “responsible” under the Federal Acquisition Regulation and, therefore, ineligible to time charter the vessels to the MSC. The MSC based its decision on the December 2006 guilty plea by OSG to violations related to the handling of bilge water and oily mixtures from the engine rooms on certain of its international flag vessels. The MSC reached this decision notwithstanding an earlier decision by the United States Maritime Administration of the Department of Transportation (“Mar Ad”) on June 25, 2007 not to suspend or debar OSG from business with the U.S. government. The federal agencies, including the United States Department of Navy, had agreed that Mar Ad would serve as the lead agency in any administrative action regarding discretionary suspension or debarment of OSG from federal contracts under the Federal Acquisition Regulation. On July 25, 2007, Product Tankers filed a protest of the MSC’s decision in the United States Court of Federal Claims, asserting that the MSC decision was arbitrary, capricious, and unsupported by the administrative record. No assurance can be given that the MSC decision will be overturned by the United States Court of Federal Claims. Although the MSC decision specifically addresses only the single contract, if the decision is not overturned, it may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain business from the U.S. government because of our affiliation with OSG. For 2007, neither we nor OSG did any business with the MSC and, accordingly, did not generate any shipping revenues from the MSC. Historically, OSG has not sought to generate significant revenues from conducting business with the MSC or other agencies and departments within the U.S. government, nor does OSG intend to in the future. The only business we currently conduct with the U.S. government is the participation by two of our vessels in the Maritime Security Program (“MSP”), which is intended to support the operation of up to 60 U.S. flag vessels in the foreign commerce of the United States to make available a fleet of privately owned vessels to the Department of Defense during times of war or national emergency. Payments are made under the MSP to vessel operators, including OSG, to help offset the high cost of employing a U.S. crew. Mar Ad, the agency which decided not to suspend or debar OSG, administers the MSP. To date, the MSC decision has not had an adverse effect on OSG’s ability to obtain business from commercial customers. 21 American Shipping Corporation (“Aker”) has informed OSG that as a result of OSG’s order of three articulated tug barges (“ATBs”) from Bender Shipbuilding & Repair Co., Inc. (“Bender”), Aker is exercising a right it claims to have under its agreement with OSG to impose a five year extension of the term of each of the bareboat charters for the ten Jones Act product carriers that subsidiaries of OSG are chartering from subsidiaries of Aker. Aker and OSG are parties to an agreement containing two provisions. In one of the provisions, if during the period ending in September 2015, OSG or any of its affiliates purchases, charters or contracts for a U.S. flag product carrier or ocean-going tank barge from a shipyard other than Aker Philadelphia Shipyard, Inc. (“APSI”), then, at Aker’s option, the charter terms of all the bareboat charters from subsidiaries of Aker may be extended for five additional years at the prevailing rate from the date of contract signing with the supplier of the relevant product carrier or tank barge. In the second provision which OSG maintains is separate and independent, if APSI contracts to build a new U.S. flag product carrier or ocean-going tank barge for any party other than OSG or its affiliates, then, at OSG’s option, the initial term of all the bareboat charters from subsidiaries of Aker may be reduced to three years from the effective date of such bareboat charters and all option periods may be reduced to the lesser of one year or the remaining option period at the time, and all later option periods may be reduced to twelve months exercisable with 12 months’ prior notice. In February 2007, Aker and OSG entered into an agreement (the “Amendment Agreement”) in which they, among other things, agreed to use their best efforts to negotiate in good faith for six product carriers and agree upon the documentation of the amendment of, among other things, the foregoing agreement to provide that the provisions summarized above do not apply to ocean-going tank barges, such as ATBs, with Aker being given an opportunity to participate in the competitive bidding in connection with any such order placed by OSG for an ocean-going tank barge. After the Amendment Agreement was signed, OSG informed APSI that it desired to contract for three ocean-going tank barges and offered APSI the opportunity to participate in a competitive bidding process for the tank barges. APSI declined the opportunity to bid, following which OSG ordered three ATBs from Bender. Subsequently, the Amendment Agreement expired on August 31, 2007 without Aker and OSG otherwise documenting their agreement on the matters provided in the Amendment Agreement. On October 25, 2007, Aker informed OSG that Aker was exercising its alleged right to extend the bareboat charters for an additional five year period as a result of OSG’s order of the three ATBs from Bender. Aker also claims that OSG has lost its rights in the separate and independent provision to reduce the bareboat charter terms of the vessels to three years if APSI contracts to build product carriers or ocean-going tank barges for third parties. OSG disputes Aker’s claim because, among other reasons, OSG believes that Aker waived, contracted away, and is otherwise estopped from asserting, its right under its agreement with respect to the order for the tank barges and further that Aker violated its agreement with OSG to use its best efforts to negotiate in good faith and agree upon the documentation of the clear agreement concerning ATBs contained in the Amendment Agreement. On January 11, 2008, Aker sent OSG a notice demanding arbitration of Aker’s claims against OSG. OSG denies Aker’s claims in the arbitration. The parties to the arbitration are now in the process of scheduling the discovery and other events in the arbitration leading to a hearing on the merits. A five-year extension of the initial term of the bareboat charters would lengthen the period OSG is required to charter these vessels. If OSG would not have exercised its option to charter each vessel for the five year extension period, this mandatory extension could have an adverse effect on OSG, the quantification of such adverse effect being dependent upon market conditions during such five year period. No assurance can be given that OSG’s positions with respect to Aker’s claims will be upheld in arbitration. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our level of debt could have important consequences for us, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or may not be available on favorable terms; · we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, thereby reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for cash distributions; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will, in turn, be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. 22 Our secured term loans and our senior secured revolving credit facility will contain restrictive covenants, which may limit our business and financing activities. The covenants in our secured term loans and our senior secured revolving credit facility and any future credit or loan agreement could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our senior secured revolving credit facility requires the consent of our lenders or limits our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee indebtedness; · charge, pledge or encumber our vessels; · change the flag, class, management or ownership of our vessels; · change the commercial and technical management of our vessels; · sell, lease, transfer or change the beneficial ownership or control of our vessels; and · subordinate our obligations thereunder to any general and administrative costs relating to the vessels. Our ability to comply with the covenants in our secured term loans and our senior secured revolving credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control including economic, financial and industry conditions. If economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we breach any of the covenants, all or a significant portion of our obligations may become immediately due and payable and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. For more information regarding our financing arrangements, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Sources of Capital.” Decreases in U.S. refining activity, particularly in the Gulf Coast region, could adversely affect our ability to grow our fleet, revenues and profitability. The demand for our services is heavily influenced by the level of refinery capacity in the United States, particularly in the Gulf Coast region. Any decline in refining capacity on the Gulf Coast, even on a temporary basis, may significantly reduce the demand for waterborne movements of refined petroleum products. For example, following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, movements of refined petroleum products from the Gulf Coast were significantly curtailed in 2005 and 2006, with repairs to hurricane-damaged Gulf Coast refineries being completed in late 2006. While the Energy Information Administration of the U.S. Department of Energy (“EIA”) has estimated that incremental capacity expansions will increase the capacity of Gulf Coast refineries by 1.6 million barrels per day by 2016, it is possible that some or all of the proposed refinery expansions may be delayed or not completed. While we expect that these refinery expansions will increase demand for waterborne transportation of refined petroleum products and we intend to acquire additional product carriers and barges to meet this expected increase in demand if refining capacity is not expanded or decreases from current levels, demand for our vessels could decrease, which could affect our ability to grow our fleet, revenues and profitability. Delays in deliveries of newbuild product carriers or in the double-hulling of our remaining single-hulled ATB will affect our ability to grow and could harm our operating results. We are scheduled to take delivery between 2008 and early 2010 of five newbuild product carriers that we have agreed to bareboat charter from Aker. We also have options to purchase from OSG up to six newbuild ATBs, which are scheduled for delivery between late 2008 and late 2010, and to acquire from OSG the right to bareboat charter from Aker up to two newbuild product carriers and up to two newbuild shuttle tankers, which are scheduled for delivery between late 2009 and early 2011. If the delivery of these vessels is delayed or canceled, the expected revenues from these vessels will be delayed or eliminated. Delivery of any of our vessels could be delayed or canceled because of: · in the case of the six ATBs that we have options to purchase, the failure by OSG to make construction payments on a timely basis or otherwise comply with its construction contracts with Bender; · quality control or engineering problems; · changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; · work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; · bankruptcy or other financial problems of the shipbuilder; 23 · weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major hurricane or fire; · the shipbuilder failing to deliver the vessels in accordance with our vessel specifications; · our requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; · shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; · our inability to finance the acquisition of any vessels; or · our inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. Drydocking of our vessels may require substantial expenditures and may result in the vessels being off-hire for significant periods of time, which could affect our ability to make cash distributions. Each of our vessels undergoes scheduled and, on occasion, unscheduled shipyard maintenance. The U.S. Coast Guard requires our vessels to be drydocked for inspection and maintenance twice every five years. In addition, vessels may have to be drydocked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage or for capital improvements. Because costs for drydocking our fleet are difficult to estimate and may be higher than we currently anticipate, we may not have sufficient available cash to pay the minimum quarterly distribution in full. In addition, vessels in drydock will not generate any income, which will reduce our revenue and cash available to make distributions on our units. In addition, the time when a vessel is out of service for maintenance is determined by a number of factors including regulatory deadlines, market conditions, shipyard availability and customer requirements. Because U.S. shipyards have limited availability for drydocking a vessel, they may not have the capacity to perform drydock maintenance on our vessels at the times required, particularly in the event of an unscheduled drydock due to accident. This may require us to have the work performed at an overseas shipyard and result in the vessel being off-hire for a longer period of time. We have high levels of fixed costs that will be incurred regardless of our level of business activity. Our business has high fixed costs that continue even if our vessels are not in service. In addition, low utilization due to reduced demand or other causes or a significant decrease in charter rates could have a significant negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to renew time charters when they expire or obtain new time charters. Of our product carriers and barges currently employed under time charters or other term contracts, the time firm employment on four may expire within the next 12 months. There can be no assurance that any of our existing time charters will be renewed or renewed at favorable rates. In addition, if the time charters for five of our product carriers that we have agreed to bareboat charter from subsidiaries of Aker are not renewed or are not renewed at favorable rates and we cannot obtain new time charters at favorable rates or the market for such product carriers is otherwise unfavorable, we may decide not to extend the bareboat charters for such product carriers. In that event, we would return any such vessel and may be required to repay the balance of the DPO liability upon delivery of such vessel. Please read “Business—Bareboat Charters from Aker of Our Newbuilds—Aker’s Debt and Deferred Principal Obligation.” An increase in the supply of Jones Act vessels without an increase in demand for such vessels could cause charter rates to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. As of December 31, 2007, the Jones Act product carrier and barge order book consisted of firm orders for 35 vessels over 16,000 dwt, or 40% of the existing coastwise fleet, with options granted for an additional four product carriers. In the year 2007 to date, firm orders for an additional five product carriers and six ATBs above 16,000 dwt have been placed. No assurance can be given that the order book will not increase further in proportion to the existing fleet. If the number of newbuild vessels delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, capacity will increase. In addition, any retrofitting of existing product carriers and barges may result in additional capacity that the market will not be able to absorb at the anticipated demand levels. If supply increases and demand does not, the charter rates for our vessels could decline significantly. 24 We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from acquisitions and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy is based upon the expansion of our fleet. Our ability to grow our fleet depends upon a number of factors, many of which we cannot control. These factors include our ability to: · reach agreement with OSG on the fair value of the ATBs that we have the right to purchase or the product carriers and shuttle tankers that we have the right to bareboat charter; · identify vessels or businesses for acquisition from third parties; · consummate any such acquisitions; · obtain required financing for acquisitions; and · integrate any acquired vessels or businesses successfully with our existing operations. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable and may not generate returns sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including the risks that we may: · fail to realize anticipated benefits (such as new customer relationships) or increase cash flow; · decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; · significantly increase our interest expense and indebtedness if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; · incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or vessels acquired; · incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; or · distract management from its duties and responsibilities as it devotes substantial time and attention to the integration of the acquired businesses or vessels. We depend on OSG and its affiliates to assist us in operating and expanding our business. Pursuant to a management agreement between us and OSG’s subsidiary, OSG Ship Management, Inc. (“OSGM”), OSGM will provide us with significant commercial and technical management services (including the commercial and technical management of our vessels, vessel maintenance, crewing, purchasing, insurance and shipyard supervision). Please read ‘‘Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Management Agreement’’ for a description of this agreement. In addition, pursuant to an administrative services agreement between us and OSGM, OSGM will provide us with significant administrative, financial and other support services. Please read ‘‘Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Administrative Services Agreement’’ for a description of this agreement. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy will depend significantly upon the satisfactory performance by OSGM of these services and our business will be harmed if OSGM fails to perform these services satisfactorily, cancels either of these agreements or stops providing these services. We may also contract with OSG for the construction of newbuilds for our fleet and to arrange the construction-related financing. Our ability to enter into new charters and expand our customer relationships will depend largely on our ability to use advantageously our relationship with OSG and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry, including with customers, shipyards and suppliers. If OSG suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: · renew existing charters upon their expiration; · obtain new charters; · interact successfully with shipyards during periods when the services of shipyards are in high demand; · obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; · maintain satisfactory relationships with suppliers and other third parties; or · effectively operate our vessels. 25 Our growth depends on our ability to compete successfully against other shipping companies to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers. While longer-term time charters have the potential to provide income at pre-determined rates over the duration of the charters, the competition for such charters is intense and obtaining such charters generally requires a lengthy and time consuming screening and bidding process that may extend for months. In addition to the quality, age and suitability of the vessel, longer-term time charters tend to be awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including the operator’s: · environmental, health and safety record; · compliance with regulatory and industry standards; · reputation for customer service and technical and operating expertise; · shipping experience and quality of ship operations, including cost-effectiveness; · ability to finance vessels at competitive rates and overall financial stability; · relationships with shipyards and the ability to obtain suitable berths; · construction management experience; · willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter; and · competitiveness of the bid price. We derive our revenues from certain major customers and the loss of any of these customers or time charters with any of them could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. During the three years ended December 31 2007, we derived revenues from certain major customers, each one representing more than 10% of revenues. In 2007, revenues from two customers aggregated 29% of total revenues. At any given time in the future, the cash reserves of our customers may be diminished or exhausted and we cannot assure you that the customers will be able to make charter payments to us. If our customers are unable to make charter payments to us, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. In addition, we could lose a charterer or the benefits of a time charter because of disagreements with a customer or if a customer exercises specific limited rights to terminate a charter. The loss of any of our customers or time charter with them, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay cash distributions. A decrease in the demand for our lightering services resulting from the deepening of the Delaware River or conditions affecting the Delaware Bay refineries could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We perform lightering services for inbound crude-oil tankers carrying crude oil up the Delaware River to refineries in the Delaware Bay. For example, shipping revenues for the Overseas Integrity constituted 7.9%, or $16.8 million, of our shipping revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, and 8.5%, or $16.2 million, of shipping revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Legislation approved by Congress in 1992 authorized the Army Corps of Engineers to deepen the Delaware River between the river’s mouth and the port of Philadelphia. For various reasons, including opposition from environmental groups and funding difficulties, the dredging project has not begun. If this project is funded, the required environmental permits are obtained and the refineries dredge their private channels, it would significantly reduce our lightering business by allowing arriving crude-oil tankers to proceed up the river with larger loads. In addition, our lightering business would be adversely affected if any of the Delaware Bay refineries ceased or scaled back its operations. Certain potential customers will not use vessels older than a specified age, even if they have been recently rebuilt. All of our existing tug-barge units were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. While all of these tug-barge units were rebuilt and double-hulled since 1998 and are “in-class,” meaning the vessel has been certified by a classification society as being built and maintained in accordance with the rules of that classification society and complies with the applicable rules and regulations of the vessel’s country of registry and applicable international conventions, some potential customers have stated that they will not charter vessels that are more than 20 years old, even if they have been rebuilt. Although there has to date been no material difference in time charter rates earned by a vessel of a specified age and a rebuilt vessel of the same age measured from the date of rebuilding, no assurance can be given that most customers will continue to view rebuilt vessels as 26 comparable to newbuild vessels. If more customers differentiate between rebuilt and newbuild vessels, time charter rates for our rebuilt ATBs will likely be adversely affected. The U.S. flag shipping industry is unpredictable, which may lead to lower charter hire rates and lower vessel values. The nature, timing and degree of changes in U.S. flag shipping industry conditions are unpredictable and may adversely affect the values of our vessels and may result in significant fluctuations in the amount of charter hire we earn, which could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. Charter rates and vessels values may fluctuate over time due to changes in the demand for U.S. flag product carriers and barges. The factors that influence the demand for U.S. flag product carriers and barges include: · the level of crude oil refining in the United States; · the demand for refined petroleum products in the United States; · environmental concerns and regulations; · new pipeline construction and expansions; · weather; and · competition from alternative sources of energy. Decreased utilization of our vessels due to bad weather could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Unpredictable weather patterns tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of refined petroleum products and our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of bad weather. In addition, adverse weather conditions can cause delays in the delivery of newbuilds and in transporting cargoes. Under our spot voyage charters, we bear the risk of delays due to weather conditions. A decrease in the cost of importing refined petroleum products could cause demand for U.S. flag product carrier and barge capacity and charter rates to decline, which would decrease our revenues and our ability to pay cash distributions on our units. The demand for U.S. flag product carriers and barges is influenced by the cost of importing refined petroleum products. Historically, charter rates for vessels qualified to participate in the U.S. coastwise trade under the Jones Act have been higher than charter rates for foreign flag vessels. This is due to the higher construction and operating costs of U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act requirements that such vessels must be built in the United States and manned by U.S. crews. This has made it less expensive for certain areas of the United States that are underserved by pipelines or which lack local refining capacity, such as in the Northeast, to import refined petroleum products carried aboard foreign flag vessels than to obtain them from U.S. refineries. If the cost of importing refined petroleum products decreases to the extent that it becomes less expensive to import refined petroleum products to other regions of the East Coast and the West Coast than producing such products in the United States and transporting them on U.S. flag vessels, demand for our product carriers and barges and the charter rates for them could decrease. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade. We are subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict maritime cargo transportation between points in the United States only to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens (or owned and operated by other entities meeting U.S. citizenship requirements to own vessels operating in the U.S. coastwise trade and, in the case of limited partnerships, where the general partner meets U.S. citizenship requirements) and manned by U.S. crews. We are also responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common units and other partnership interests to ensure compliance with the Jones Act. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels. Our business would be adversely affected if the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade were modified or repealed or if changes in international trade agreements were to occur. If the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were repealed or altered, the maritime transportation of cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-built vessels. The Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, or the 27 Secretary, is vested with the authority and discretion to waive the coastwise laws if the Secretary deems that such action is necessary in the interest of national defense. On two occasions during 2005, the Secretary, at the direction of the President of the United States, issued limited waivers of the Jones Act for the transportation of refined petroleum products in response to the extraordinary circumstances created by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and their effect on Gulf Coast refineries and petroleum product pipelines. Any waiver of the coastwise laws, whether in response to natural disasters or otherwise, could result in increased competition from foreign product carrier and barge operators, which could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress to repeal or modify the Jones Act in order to facilitate foreign-flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act. Foreign-flag vessels generally have lower construction costs and generally operate at significantly lower costs than we do in U.S. markets, which would likely result in reduced charter rates. We believe that continued efforts will be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act. If these efforts are successful, foreign-flag vessels could be permitted to trade in the United States coastwise trade and significantly increase competition with our fleet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Additionally, the Jones Act restrictions on the provision of maritime cabotage services are subject to certain exceptions under certain international trade agreements, including the General Agreement on Trade in Services and the North American Free Trade Agreement. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, the transportation of maritime cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-manufactured vessels. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, insurance requirements and the manning, construction, operation and transfer of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine transportation industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the U.S. Coast Guard, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Homeland Security, the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Transportation Safety Board, the U.S. Customs Service and the U.S. Maritime Administration, as well as regulation by private industry organizations, such as the American Bureau of Shipping. The U.S. Coast Guard and the National Transportation Safety Board set safety standards and are authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. The U.S. Coast Guard is authorized to inspect vessels at will. Our operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. In order to maintain compliance with environmental laws and regulations, we incur, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in meeting maintenance and inspection requirements, developing and implementing emergency preparedness procedures and obtaining insurance coverage or other required evidence of financial ability sufficient to address pollution incidents. Environmental requirements can also: · impair the economic value of our vessels; · make our vessels less desirable to potential charterers; · require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions; · lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for environmental matters; and · result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws or regulations, such non-compliance could result in substantial civil or criminal fines or penalties and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. In addition, some environmental laws impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability even if we are neither negligent nor at fault. Under OPA 90, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. In addition, an oil spill or other release of hazardous substances could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and costs for natural resource damages under other federal and state laws, third party personal injury or property damage claims or other civil actions. The potential for oil spills or other releases could increase as we increase the size of our fleet. Most states bordering on a navigable waterway have also enacted 28 legislation providing for potentially unlimited liability for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. For more information, please read “Business—Regulation.” We believe that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and our competitors. In addition, a serious marine incident occurring in U.S. waters that results in significant oil pollution could result in additional legislation or regulation. Future environmental requirements may be adopted that could limit our ability to operate or require us to incur substantial additional costs. Marine transportation is inherently risky and an incident involving significant loss of environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: · marine disasters; · bad weather; · mechanical failures; · grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; · human error; and · war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: · death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage; · delays in the delivery of cargo; · loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts; · governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; · higher insurance rates; and · damage to our reputation and customer relationships. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations. The operation of vessels that carry crude oil or refined petroleum products is inherently risky. Although we carry insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business, risks may arise for which we are not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our operations. Any particular claim may not be paid by our insurance and any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, the aggregate amount of which could be material. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to obtain a replacement ship in a timely manner in the event of a loss. In addition, we may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution and new regulations could lead to similar increases, or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult to obtain. The insurance that may be available to us in the future may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations and, as a member of such associations, we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed the reserves of the association. We may be subject to calls or premiums in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of protection and indemnity associations through which we obtain insurance coverage for tort liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant additional expenses. Increased competition from pipelines could result in reduced profitability. We compete with pipelines that carry refined petroleum products. Long-haul transportation of refined petroleum products is generally less costly by pipeline than by vessel. The construction of new pipelines to carry refined petroleum products into the markets we serve, including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipelines, the expansion of existing pipelines and the conversion of pipelines that do not currently carry refined products, could adversely affect our ability to compete in particular locations. For example, although a previous proposal to build a refined petroleum products pipeline through the 29 Gulf of Mexico from Mississippi to Tampa, Florida was abandoned in 2006, the construction of any such pipeline in the future could decrease demand for our product carriers and barges and cause our charter rates to decline. An increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The cost of fuel for our vessels is a significant component of our voyage expenses under our voyage charters and we have recently experienced significant increases in the cost of fuel used in our operations. While we have been able to pass a portion of these increases on to our customers pursuant to the terms of our charters, there can be no assurances that we will be able to pass on any future increases in fuel prices. If fuel prices continue to increase and we are not able to pass such increases on to our customers, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions may be adversely affected. Over time, vessel values may fluctuate substantially and, if these values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of a vessel, we may incur a loss. Vessel values for our fleet can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: · the prevailing and expected levels of charter rates in the Jones Act market; · the age of our vessels; · the capacity of U.S. pipelines; · the capacity of U.S. refineries; · the number of vessels in the Jones Act fleet; · the efficiency of the Jones Act fleet; and · the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing vessels as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards or otherwise. Our inability to dispose of a vessel at a certain value could result in a loss on its sale. Declining vessel values could adversely affect our liquidity by limiting our ability to raise cash by arranging debt secured by our vessels or refinancing such debt. Declining vessel values could also result in a breach of loan covenants or trigger events of default under relevant financing agreements that require us to maintain certain loan-to-value ratios. In such instances, if we are unable to pledge additional collateral to offset the decline in vessel values, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our vessels pledged as collateral for the loans. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay whatever amount may be required to have the arrest lifted. The U.S. government could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation. The U.S. government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues. Terrorist attacks, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of oil and petroleum production and distribution, which could in turn result in reduced demand for our services. 30 In addition, oil and petroleum facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil and petroleum to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil or petroleum to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate the charters for our vessels, which would harm our cash flow and our business. Terrorist attacks, or the perception that oil and petroleum facilities and carriers are potential terrorist targets, could materially and adversely affect expansion of oil and petroleum infrastructure and the continued supply of oil and petroleum to the United States and other countries. Concern that oil and petroleum facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed to significant community and environmental resistance to the construction of a number of oil and petroleum facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving an oil and petroleum facility or carrier did occur, the incident may adversely affect construction of additional oil and petroleum facilities in the United States and other countries or the temporary or permanent closing of various oil and petroleum facilities currently in operation. In addition, heightened awareness of security needs after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 has caused the U.S. Coast Guard, the International Maritime Organization and the states and local ports to adopt heightened security procedures relating to ports and vessels. Complying with these procedures, as well as the implementation of security plans for our vessels required by the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, have increased our costs of security. We depend on key personnel of OSGM for the success of our business and some of those persons face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. We depend on the services of our senior management team and other key personnel of OSGM. We may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available. In addition, OSGM may not be able to hire vessel personnel meeting its standards if we expand our fleet. As a result of the planned expansion of our fleet through the construction of new vessels, OSGM may also need to hire additional key technical, support and other qualified personnel to ensure that construction is completed timely and on budget. If OSGM is unsuccessful in attracting such personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our senior management and many of the other key personnel of OSGM are not required to work full-time on our affairs and also work for affiliates of our general partner, including OSG. The affiliates of our general partner conduct substantial businesses and activities of their own in which we have no economic interest. As a result, these individuals may face conflicts regarding the allocation of their time between our business and OSG’s business, resulting in these employees spending less time in managing our business and affairs than they do currently. Risks Related to Our Common Units Following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner, we may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units. Following the establishment of cash reserves and the payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner, we may not have sufficient cash available each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.375 per common unit. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on risks inherent in our business, including, among other things: · the rates we obtain from charters for our vessels and equity income we may receive from affiliated companies; · the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; · the level of crude oil refining activity in the United States, particularly in the Gulf Coast region; · the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our vessels and the timing of, and the number of days required for, scheduled drydockings of our vessels; · delays in the delivery of newbuilds and the resulting delay in receipt of revenue from those vessels; · prevailing economic and political conditions; and · the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. 31 The actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: · the level of capital expenditures we make for maintaining our vessels, building new vessels, acquiring existing second-hand vessels and possibly retrofitting vessels to comply with the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA 90”); · our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our senior secured revolving credit facility and our secured term loans; · interest rate fluctuations; · the cost of acquisitions, if any; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · our ability to make working capital or other borrowings, including borrowings to pay distributions to unitholders; and · the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future capital expenditures and other matters, established by our general partner in its discretion. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our profit or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result of this and the other factors mentioned above, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. OSG controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates, including OSG, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties, and may favor their own interests to our unitholders’ detriment. OSG owns a 75.5% interest in us, including a 2% interest through our general partner, which OSG owns and controls. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owner, OSG. Furthermore, all of the officers of our general partner and four of the directors of our general partner are officers of OSG or its affiliates and, as such, they have fiduciary duties to OSG that may cause them to pursue business strategies that favor OSG or which otherwise are not in the best interests of us or our unitholders. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between OSG and its affiliates, including our general partner and its officers, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner and its affiliates may favor their own interests over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires OSG or its affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us and OSG’s officers and directors have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of OSG, which may be contrary to our interests; · the executive officers and four of the directors of our general partner also serve as executive officers of OSG; · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as OSG and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; · OSG and its affiliates have the ability to compete with us. Please read “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence – Omnibus Agreement - Noncompetition”; · our general partner may make a determination to receive a quantity of our Class B units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders; · some officers of OSG who provide services to us also will devote significant time to the business of OSG, and will be compensated by OSG for the services rendered to it; · our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under Delaware law and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty and, by purchasing common units, unitholders will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of our cash reserves, asset purchases and sales, borrowings and issuances of additional partnership securities, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and, based on the applicable 32 facts and circumstances, whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. The determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; · in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units owned by OSG, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; · our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; · our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase our common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units; · our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. OSG and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. Pursuant to the omnibus agreement to be entered into between us and OSG in connection with the completion of our initial public offering, OSG and its controlled affiliates (other than us, our general partner and our subsidiaries) will agree not to engage in or acquire or invest in any business that provides marine transportation or distribution services in connection with the transportation of crude oil and refined petroleum products by water between points in the United States to which the United States coastwise laws apply, to the extent such business generates qualifying income for federal income tax purposes. The omnibus agreement, however, contains significant exceptions that may allow OSG or any of its controlled affiliates to compete with us, which could harm our business. Please read “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Omnibus Agreement—Noncompetition.” We do not have 100% ownership of some of our assets and may need the consent of third parties to take certain actions, which may prevent us from operating or dealing with those assets as we deem them appropriate or necessary. We do not have 100% ownership of some of our assets, such as the product carriers we bareboat charter from Aker and our economic interests in Alaska Tanker Company, LLC. By not having complete ownership of these and other assets, we may need to obtain prior consent of third parties to take certain commercial actions. If we are unable to obtain such consents on commercially reasonable and satisfactory terms, our ability to operate or deal with those assets may be adversely affected. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by Delaware law. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, which permits our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires. In such cases, it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting us, our affiliates or our unitholders. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by its sole owner, OSG, and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples include the exercise of its right to receive Class B units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, the exercise of its limited call right, its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment of the partnership agreement; · provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in “good faith,” meaning it reasonably believed that the decision was in our best interests; · generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from 33 unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith, and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; · provides that our general partner and its affiliates and their officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our unitholders for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and · provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner or its conflicts committee acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Cost reimbursements payable to our general partner and its affiliates, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf, including a portion of the compensation of our directors and officers who are employees of OSG for the time they spend on partnership matters, which will be determined by our general partner. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in providing certain commercial and technical management services and administrative, financial and other support services to us and certain of our subsidiaries, including services rendered to us pursuant to the agreements described below under “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions—Management Agreement” and contain “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions—Administrative Services Agreement.” The reimbursement of expenses to our general partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or its board of directors and will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or any other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen by OSG. Furthermore, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, their ability to remove our general partner is limited. As a result of these limitations in the rights of our unitholders, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. OSG owns 75.5% of our common units and subordinated units. Therefore, unitholders will be unable initially to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates will own sufficient units to prevent its removal. Also, if our general partner is removed without “cause” during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and OSG are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. The removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance targets. “Cause” is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. “Cause” does not include most cases of alleged poor 34 management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and the conversion of all subordinated units to common units. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the ability of the unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders, so long as the third party satisfies the citizenship requirements of the Jones Act. In addition, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of OSG or any subsequent member of our general partner from transferring all or a portion of its membership interests in our general partner to a third party as long as the citizenship requirements of the Jones Act are satisfied. In the event of any such transfer, the new member or members of our general partner would be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own designees and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional equity securities without unitholders’ approval, which would dilute the ownership interests. Our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional units or other equity securities, subject to any limitations imposed by the New York Stock Exchange. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities may have the following effects: · our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available to pay distributions on each unit may decrease; · because a smaller percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of the common units may decline. OSG may sell units in the public or private markets, which may have adverse effects on the price of our common units. OSG holds 7,500,000 common units and 15,000,000 subordinated units, representing a 73.5% limited partner interest in us. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period, which could occur as early as the first business day after September 30, 2010, and all of the subordinated units may convert into common units earlier than such date if additional tests are satisfied. OSG may, from time to time, sell all or a portion of its common units or subordinated units in the public or private markets. Sales of any of these units, or the anticipation of such sales, could lower the market price of our common units and may make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We have granted registration rights to our general partner and its affiliates, including OSG, and their assignees. These registration rights continue for two years following any withdrawal or removal of our general partner. These unitholders have the right, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering any of our common, subordinated or other equity securities owned by them or to include those securities in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our unitholders. By exercising their registration rights and selling a large number of common units or other securities, these unitholders could cause the price of our common units to decline. 35 We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We have a holding company structure and our operating subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than our ownership interests in our subsidiaries and our equity investments. As a result, our ability to make distributions on our common units depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and our equity investments and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries and joint ventures to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary to make distributions on our common units, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as borrowing funds to make distributions on our common units. We cannot assure our unitholders that we would be able to borrow funds to make distributions on our common units. Our partnership agreement currently limits the ownership of our partnership interests by individuals or entities that are not U.S. citizens. This restriction could limit the liquidity of our common units. In order to ensure compliance with Jones Act citizenship requirements, the board of directors of our general partner has adopted a requirement that at least 85% of the interests in our partnership must be held by U.S. citizens. This requirement may have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our common units because holders will be unable to sell units to non-U.S. citizens. Any purported transfer of common units in violation of these provisions will be ineffective to transfer the common units or any voting, dividend or other rights associated with them. In establishing cash reserves, our general partner may reduce the amount of cash available for distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct cash reserves from our operating surplus that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. These reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our general partner may establish reserves for distributions on the subordinated units, but only if those reserves will not prevent us from distributing the full minimum quarterly distribution, plus any arrearages, on the common units for the following four quarters. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner each quarter to deduct from operating surplus estimated maintenance capital expenditures, as opposed to actual expenditures, which could reduce the amount of available cash for distribution. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the board of directors of our general partner at least once a year, provided that any change must be approved by the conflicts committee. In addition, see above “Risks Inherent in Our Business—We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus each quarter, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted.” Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and is not required to obtain a fairness opinion in connection with the exercise of its call right. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price as determined in accordance with our partnership agreement. Our general partner may assign this right to any of its affiliates or to us. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. OSG owns common units representing a 24.5% limited partner interest in us, together with 15,000,000 subordinated units representing an additional 49% limited partnership interest in us. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units, and conversion of our subordinated units into common units, OSG will own common 36 units representing a 73.5% limited partner interest in us. Our general partner and its affiliates may own enough of our common units to enable our general partner to exercise its call right. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B units and general partner units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders. This could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48%) for each of the prior four consecutive quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two quarters immediately preceding the reset election (we refer to this amount as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, our general partner will be entitled to receive a number of Class B units and general partner units. The Class B units will be entitled to the same cash distributions per unit as our common units and will be convertible into an equal number of common units. The number of Class B units to be issued will be equal to the number of units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. The number of general partner units to be issued will be an amount that will maintain our general partner’s ownership interest immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our Class B units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new Class B units and general partner units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights. If we make distributions out of capital surplus, as opposed to operating surplus, such distributions will constitute a return of capital and will result in a reduction in the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels. Our partnership agreement treats a distribution of capital surplus as the repayment of the initial unit price, which is a return of capital. The initial offering price less any distributions of capital surplus per unit is referred to as the “unrecovered capital.” Each time a distribution of capital surplus is made, the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reduced in the same proportion as the corresponding reduction in the unrecovered capital per unit, which would adversely affect the amount of distributions you would receive. Because distributions of capital surplus will reduce the minimum quarterly distribution, after any of these distributions it may be easier for our general partner to receive incentive distributions and for the subordinated units to convert into common units. However, any distribution of capital surplus before the minimum quarterly distribution is reduced to zero cannot be applied to the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution or any arrearages. We do not anticipate that we will make any distributions from capital surplus. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. As a limited partner in a partnership organized under Delaware law, our unitholders could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court or government agency determined that: · we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or · our unitholders’ right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse 37 to our general partner. In addition, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some other jurisdictions in which we do business. We can borrow money to pay distributions, which would reduce the amount of borrowing capacity available to operate our business. Our partnership agreement will allow us to make working capital borrowings to pay distributions. Accordingly, we can make distributions on all our units even though cash generated by our operations may not be sufficient to pay such distributions. Any working capital borrowings by us to make distributions will reduce the amount of working capital borrowings available for operating our business. For more information, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Sources of Capital—Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility.” Restrictions in our debt agreements will limit our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of certain events. Our senior secured revolving credit facility and our secured term loans limit our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: · failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; · breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to the vessels; · breach of certain financial covenants; · failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; · default under other indebtedness; · bankruptcy or insolvency events; · failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; · a change of control, as defined in the applicable debt agreement; and · any other event of default, as defined in the applicable debt agreement. Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new debt could have similar restrictions. Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other relatively more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under some circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. We may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Purchasers of units who become limited partners are liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not being subject to entity-level taxation by states. If the IRS was to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. 38 The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this matter. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation. For example, due to widespread state budget deficits in recent years, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income tax, franchise tax or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be reduced. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, in response to certain recent developments, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income under Section 7704(d) of the Internal Revenue Code. It is possible that these efforts could result in changes to the existing U.S. tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including us. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively affect the value of an investment in our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected and the costs of any contest will be borne by our unitholders and our general partner. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take and it may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely affect the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and our general partner and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from their share of our taxable income. The first cash distribution was paid by us in February 2008 based upon the period from November 14, 2007 to December 31, 2007. Our unitholders will, however, be required to include in income their allocable share of our income for the taxable period from completion of this offering until December 31, 2007, without regard to whether they receive corresponding cash distributions. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. If our unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a common unit, which decreased their tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to them if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of 39 the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to our unitholders due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”) and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from our unitholders sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property even if you do not live in these jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We will initially conduct business in Florida, which does not impose an individual income tax. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is our unitholders responsibility to file all of your federal, state and local tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any 12-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 