Item 1A. Risk Factors The Notes involve a high degree of risk. In deciding whether to purchase Notes, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Notes you purchase and could cause you to lose all or part of your initial purchase price or future principal and interest payments you expect to receive. RISKS RELATING TO THE NOTES, AND THE CORRESPONDING MEMBER LOANS ON WHICH THE NOTES ARE DEPENDENT You may lose some or all of your initial purchase price for the Notes because the Notes are highly risky and speculative. Only investors who can bear the loss of their entire purchase price should purchase. Notes are highly risky and speculative because payments on Notes depend entirely on payments to us of unsecured consumer finance obligations of individual borrowers and contemporaneous payments on the Notes, which are special, limited obligations of LendingClub. Notes are suitable purchases only for investors of adequate financial means. If you cannot afford to lose all of the money you plan to invest in Notes, you should not purchase Notes. Payments on each Note depend entirely on the payments, if any, we receive on the corresponding Member Loan related to that Note. If a borrower member fails to make any payments on the corresponding Member Loan related to your Note, you will not receive any payments on your Note. We will make payments pro rata on a series of Notes, net of our service charge, only if we receive the borrower member’s payments on the corresponding Member Loan and such payments clear and therefore become available for distribution to investors. We will not pay to investors any unsuccessful payment fees, check processing fees, collection fees we or our third-party collection agency charge. If we do not receive payments on the corresponding Member Loan related to your Note, you will not be entitled to any payments under the terms of the Notes, and you will not receive any payments. The failure of a borrower member to repay a loan is not an event of default under the terms of the Notes. The Notes are special, limited obligations of ours only, and the Notes are not secured by any collateral or guaranteed or insured by any third party. The Notes will not represent an obligation of borrower members or any other party except by us, and are special, limited obligations of ours. The Notes are not secured by any collateral and are not guaranteed or insured by any governmental agency or instrumentality or any third party. Member Loans are unsecured obligations and as such are not backed by any collateral or guaranteed nor are they insured by any third party, and you must rely on us and our designated third-party collection agency to pursue collection against any borrower member. Member Loans are unsecured obligations of borrower members. They are not secured by any collateral, not guaranteed or insured by any third party and not backed by any governmental authority in any way. We and our designated third-party collection agency will, therefore, be limited in our ability to collect Member Loans. Moreover, unsecured Member Loans are obligations of borrower members to us as assignee of the loan’s promissory note from WebBank, or obligations of borrower members to the Trust as assignee of the loan’s promissory note from us. Member Loans are not 30 Table of Contents obligations to holders of Notes. Holders of Notes will have no recourse against borrower members and no ability to pursue borrower members to collect payments under Member Loans. Holders of Notes may look only to us and the Trust, respectively, for payment of the Notes, and our obligation to pay the Notes is limited as described in this document. Furthermore, if a borrower member fails to make any payments on the Member Loan corresponding to a Note, the holder of that Note will not receive any payments on that Note. The holder of that Note will not be able to obtain the identity of the borrower member in order to contact the borrower member about the defaulted Member Loan. If payments on the corresponding Member Loans become overdue, it is likely you will not receive the full principal and interest payments that you expect due to collection fees and other costs, and you may not recover any of your original purchase price. If the borrower member fails to make a required payment on a Member Loan within 30 days of the due date, we will pursue reasonable collection efforts in respect of the Member Loan. We may handle collection efforts in respect of a delinquent Member Loan ourselves, or we may refer a delinquent Member Loan to a collection agency on the 31st day of its delinquency. These efforts will be considered reasonable collection efforts. If we refer a loan to a collection agency, we will have no other obligation to attempt to collect on that delinquent loan. If payment amounts on a delinquent Member Loan are received from a borrower member more than 30 days after their due date, then we, or, if we have referred the delinquent loan to an outside collection agency, that collection agency, will retain a percentage of any funds recovered from such borrower member as a service fee before any principal or interest becomes payable to you from recovered amounts in respect of Notes related to the corresponding Member Loan. We or the collection agency may be unable to recover some or all of the unpaid balance of a non-performing Member Loan. You must rely on the collection efforts from us and the designated collection agency, and you are not permitted to attempt to collect payments on the Member Loans in any manner. Borrowers may not view or treat their obligations to us as having the same significance as loans from traditional lending sources, such as bank loans and borrower loans may have a higher risk of default than loans of borrowers with similar credit scores to other lenders. The investment return on the Notes depends on borrowers fulfilling their payment obligations in a timely and complete manner under the corresponding Member Loan. Borrowers may not view our lending obligations facilitated through our platform as having the same significance as other credit obligations arising under more traditional circumstances, such as loans from banks or other commercial financial institutions. If a borrower neglects his or her payment obligations on a Member Loan upon which payment of the corresponding Note is dependent or chooses not to repay his or her borrower loan entirely, you may not be able to recover any portion of your investment in a Note. The initial maturity date and final maturity date for five year term loans is the same date. As such, you will not receive any payments we may receive after the maturity date of five year term loans. The initial maturity date of all five year term loans will not be extended to a later date, so the initial maturity date of a five year term Member Loan will equal its initial maturity date, which is unlike the three year term loans where the initial maturity date may be extended. If a five year term loan was extended beyond five years, a portion of the interest paid would likely not be deductible by us. As a result, if we receive any principal and interest payments from a borrower after the maturity date of a five year term loan, we may retain 100% of these payments and are not obligated to distribute those payments to you. Given the fact that we are not obligated to deliver any funds received by us after the final maturity date of a Note and we are responsible for collection efforts, a conflict of interest could exist as any delay in receiving borrower funds would result in additional money coming to us. There is, however, a significant mitigating factor to this potential conflict of interest. Without diligent collection efforts and success, fewer potential lenders will have the confidence to participate on the site, limiting our growth and long term profitability. Our loan grading algorithm is based upon historical credit performance of certain populations and as a result the actual performance of a loan may not be consistent within or across loan grades and may result in an unanticipated loss of capital. Our proprietary pricing algorithm is based primarily upon the historical loan performance of actual borrowers that meet the requirements of the algorithm, the assumed performance of applicants that would have been approved under the current algorithm but were declined by prior methodologies, and the exclusion of borrowers that were approved under prior methodologies but would have been declined under the new algorithm, in addition to other factors and assumptions. Because the algorithm is based upon these assumed performances and the assumptions of management, the actual performance of a graded loan may differ materially versus previously issued, similarly graded loans or other grades that may result in a greater loss of your investment capital than anticipated. 31 Table of Contents Credit Information that we receive about a borrower member may be inaccurate or may not accurately reflect the borrower member’s creditworthiness, which may cause you to lose part or all of the purchase price you pay for a Note. We obtain borrower member credit information from consumer reporting agencies, such as TransUnion, Experian or Equifax, and assign one of 35 loan grades to loan requests, from A1 through G5, based on the reported credit score, other information reported by the consumer reporting agencies and the requested loan amount. A credit score or loan grade assigned to a borrower member may not reflect that borrower member’s actual creditworthiness because the credit score may be based on outdated, incomplete or inaccurate consumer reporting data, and we do not verify the information obtained from the borrower member’s credit report. Additionally, there is a risk that, following the date of the credit report that we obtain and review, a borrower member may have: • become delinquent in the payment of an outstanding obligation; • default on a pre-existing debt obligation; • take on additional debt; or • sustain other adverse financial events. Moreover, investors do not, and will not, have access to consolidated financial statements of borrower members, or to other detailed financial information about borrower members. Information supplied by borrower members may be inaccurate or intentionally false and should generally not be relied upon. Borrower members supply a variety of information that is included in the borrower Member Loan listings on our website and in the posting reports and sales reports we file with the SEC. Other than as described below, we do not verify this information, and it may be inaccurate or incomplete. For example, we do not verify a borrower member’s stated tenure, job title, home ownership status or intention for the use of loan proceeds, and the information borrower member’s supply may be inaccurate or intentionally false. . Unless we have specifically indicated otherwise in a loan listing, we do not verify a borrower member’s stated income. For example, we do not verify borrower member paystubs, IRS Forms W-2, federal or state income tax returns, bank and savings account balances, retirement account balances, letters from employers, home ownership or rental records, car ownership records or any records related to past bankruptcy and legal proceedings. In the limited cases in which we have selected borrower members for income or employment verification, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, approximately 68.0% of requested borrower members provided us with satisfactory responses to verify their income or employment; approximately 8.3% of requested borrower members withdrew their applications for loans, and approximately 32.1% of requested borrower members either failed to respond to our request in full or provided information that failed to verify their stated information, and we therefore removed those borrower Members’ Loan postings. The identity of borrower members is not revealed to investors, and investors also have no ability to obtain or verify borrower member information either before or after they purchase a Note. Potential investors may only communicate with borrower members through our website postings, and then only on an anonymous basis. While we may monitor website posting for appropriate content, we do not verify any information in the postings nor do we respond to requests from investor or borrower members in any posting and any response to the contrary should not be seen as accurate. If you rely on false, misleading or unverified information supplied by borrower members in deciding to purchase Notes, you may lose part or all of the purchase price you pay for a Note. Loan posting and borrower member information available on our website will be statements made in connection with the purchase and sale of securities, and therefore subject to Rule 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Loan posting and borrower member information filed in prospectus supplements will be subject to the liability provisions of the Securities Act. In this document, we advise potential investors as to the limitations on the reliability of this information, and an investor’s recourse in the event this information is false will be extremely limited. Consequently, investors should rely on loan grade, which we determine based on third-party credit report information, and the size of the loan request, and should not rely on unverified information provided by borrower members. You should not assume that a Note is appropriate for you as an investment vehicle just because it corresponds to a loan listed on our platform or is included in a portfolio built based upon your investment criteria through any of the portfolio tool. While we take precautions to prevent borrower member identity fraud, it is possible that identity fraud may still occur and adversely affect your ability to receive the principal and interest payments that you expect to receive on Notes. We use identity checks with a third-party provider to verify each borrower member’s identity and credit history. Notwithstanding our efforts, there is a risk that identity fraud may occur without our detecting it, and a loan obtained by identity fraud may simply default.. While we will repurchase Notes in limited identity fraud circumstances involving the corresponding Member Loan, we are not otherwise obligated to repurchase a Note from you for any other reason. From October 2008, when we commenced the issuance 32 Table of Contents of Notes, through December 31, 2012, we had repurchased Notes relating to thirty four corresponding Member Loans in which identity fraud occurred. If we repurchase a Note based on identity fraud involving the corresponding Member Loan, you will only receive an amount equal to the outstanding principal balance of the Note. We have the exclusive right to investigate claims of identity theft and determine, in our sole discretion, whether verifiable identity theft has occurred. As we are the sole entity with the ability to investigate and determine verifiable identity theft, which triggers our repurchase obligation, a conflict of interest exists as the denial of a claim under our identity theft guarantee would save us from the repurchase obligation. There are, however, three factors that mitigate the risk of this conflict. Without the protection offered by this guarantee, fewer potential lenders will have the confidence to participate on the site, limiting our growth and long term profitability. In addition, our relationship with WebBank includes a requirement – and accompanying audit function – to insure that claims of identity theft are thoroughly investigated and accurately reported. Finally, California statutes include severe penalties owed to the victim of identity theft if it is shown that a claim of identity theft was not adequately investigated or frivolously dismissed. Our performance data about borrower member performance on our Member Loans is just over five years old. Default and charge-off rates on Member Loans may increase. Due to our limited operational and loan origination history, we have limited historical performance data regarding borrower member performance on the Member Loans, and we do not yet know what the long-term loan loss experience may be. As of December 31, 2012, for only those loans that meet our current credit policy, our aggregate default and charged-off rate was 2.29% of the principal balance of loans. As of December 31, 2012, for all loans, our default and charged-off rate was 2.57% of the principal balanced of loans. These default and charge-off rates may increase in the future. In addition, as we do not have significant experience in the performance of five-year unsecured consumer loans, the future default rates on these loan types is uncertain and may exceed our current expectations. As actual loan loss experience increases on our platform, we may change how loan interest rates are set, and investors who have purchased Notes prior to any such changes will not benefit from these changes. Default rates on Member Loans may increase as a result of economic conditions beyond our control and beyond the control of borrower members. Member Loan default rates may be significantly affected by economic downturns or general economic conditions beyond our control and beyond the control of individual borrower members. In particular, default rates on Member Loans on which the Notes are dependent may increase due to factors such as prevailing interest rates, the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence, residential real estate values, the value of the U.S. dollar, energy prices, changes in consumer spending, the number of personal bankruptcies, disruptions in the credit markets and other factors. The significant downturn in the United States economy that occurred in the past several years caused default rates on consumer loans to increase, and a continuation of the downturn will likely result in continued high or increased Member Loan default rates. If you decide to invest through the platform and concentrate your investment in a single Note (or a small number of Notes), your entire return will depend on the performance of a single Member Loan. Member Loans facilitated through our platform have a wide range of credit grades, and we expect that some borrower members at all credit grades will default on their Member Loans. If you decide to invest through the platform and concentrate your investment in a single Note (or a small number of Notes) your entire return will depend on the performance of that single Member Loan (or that concentrated small number of Notes). For example, if you plan to purchase $100 of Notes, and choose to invest the entire $100 in a single Note instead of in four $25 Notes corresponding to the Member Loans of four different borrowers, you would lose your entire $100 investment if that single borrower defaulted. Failing to diversify your investment increases the risk of losing your entire investment due to a single borrower member’s default, or a small number of borrower member defaults. Diversification, however, will not eliminate the risk that you may lose some, or all, of the expected principal and interest payments on the Notes. In the unlikely event that we receive payments on the corresponding Member Loans relating to the Notes after the final maturity date, you will not receive payments on the Notes after final maturity. Each Note will mature on its initial maturity date of either three or five years from its issuance date, unless any principal or interest payments in respect of the corresponding borrower loan remain due and payable to us upon the initial maturity date. For three year loans, if the loan remains due and payable on the initial maturity date, the maturity of the Note will be automatically extended to the five year anniversary of the loan, which will be its final maturity date. In contrast, the maturity date of a five year loan is never extended, so the initial maturity date of a five year Member Loan will equal its final maturity date. If there are any amounts under the corresponding Member Loan still due and owing to us after the final maturity, we will have no further obligation to make payments on the Notes of the series, even if we receive payments on the corresponding Member Loan after the final maturity. Given the fact that we are not obligated to deliver any funds received by us after the final maturity date of a Note and are responsible for collection efforts, a conflict of interest could exist as any delay in receiving borrower funds would result in additional money coming to us. There is, however, a significant mitigating factor to this potential conflict. Without diligent collection efforts and success, fewer potential lenders will have the confidence to participate on the site, limiting our growth and long term profitability. 33 Table of Contents The Member Loans on which the Notes are dependent do not restrict borrower members from incurring additional unsecured or secured debt, nor do they impose any financial restrictions on borrower members during the term of the Member Loan, which may increase the likelihood that a borrower member may default on their loan. All Member Loans are credit obligations of individual borrower members. If a borrower member incurs additional debt after obtaining a Member Loan through our platform, that additional debt may adversely affect the borrower member’s creditworthiness generally, and could result in the financial distress, insolvency, or bankruptcy of the borrower member. This circumstance could ultimately impair the ability of that borrower member to make payments on the borrower’s Member Loan and your ability to receive the principal and interest payments that you expect to receive on Notes dependent on those loans. . To the extent that the borrower member has or incurs other indebtedness and cannot pay all of its indebtedness, the borrower member may choose to make payments to other creditors, rather than to us. As to these Member Loans, to the extent borrower members incur other indebtedness that is secured, such as mortgage, home equity or auto loans, the ability of the secured creditors to exercise remedies against the assets of the borrower member may impair the borrower member’s ability to repay the borrower loan on which your Note is dependent for payment, or it may impair our ability to collect on the loan if it goes unpaid. Since the Member Loans are unsecured, borrower members may choose to repay obligations under other indebtedness before repaying Member Loans facilitated through our platform because the borrower members have no collateral at risk. An investor will not be made aware of any additional debt incurred by a borrower member, or whether such debt is secured. Member Loans do not contain any cross-default or similar provisions. If borrower members default on their debt obligations other than the Member Loans, the ability to collect on Member Loans on which the Notes are dependent may be substantially impaired. The Member Loans do not contain cross-default provisions. A cross-default provision makes a default under certain debt of a borrower member an automatic default on other debt of that borrower member. The effect of this can be to allow other creditors to move more quickly to claim any assets of the borrower member. Because the Member Loans do not contain cross-default provisions, a Member Loan will not be placed automatically in default upon that borrower member’s default on any of the borrower member’s other debt obligations, unless there are relevant independent grounds for a default on the Member Loan. In addition, the Member Loans will not be referred to a third-party collection agency for collection because of a borrower member’s default on debt obligations other than the Member Loan. If a borrower member defaults on debt obligations owed to a third party and continues to satisfy payment obligations under the Member Loan, the third party may seize the borrower’s assets or pursue other legal action against the borrower member before the borrower member defaults on the Member Loan. Payments on Notes may be substantially reduced if the borrower member subsequently defaults on the Member Loans and you may be unable to recoup any or all of your expected principal and interest payments on those Notes. Borrower members may seek the protection of debtor relief under federal bankruptcy or state insolvency laws, which may result in the nonpayment of the Notes. Borrower members may seek protection under federal bankruptcy law or similar laws. If a borrower member files for bankruptcy (or becomes the subject of an involuntary petition), a stay will go into effect that will automatically put any pending collection actions, on hold and prevent further collection action absent bankruptcy court approval. If we receive notice that a borrower member has filed for protection under the federal bankruptcy laws, or has become the subject of an involuntary bankruptcy petition, we will put the borrower Member’s Loan account into “bankruptcy status.” When we put a Member Loan into bankruptcy status, we terminate automatic monthly Automated Clearing House (“ACH”) debits and do not undertake collection activity without bankruptcy court approval. Whether any payment will ultimately be made or received on a Member Loan after a bankruptcy status is declared, depends on the borrower member’s particular financial situation and the determination of the court. It is possible that the borrower member’s personal liability on the Member Loan will be discharged in bankruptcy. In most cases involving the bankruptcy of a borrower member with an unsecured loan, unsecured creditors, including us and the Trust as holders of the Member Loans, will receive only a fraction of any amount outstanding on their Member Loans, if anything. Federal law entitles borrower members who enter active military service to an interest rate cap and certain other rights that may inhibit the ability to collect on loans and reduce the amount of interest paid on the corresponding Notes. Federal law provides borrower members on active military service with rights that may delay or impair our ability to collect on a borrower Member Loan corresponding to your Note. The Service members Civil Relief Act (“SCRA”) requires that the interest rate on preexisting debts, such as Member Loans, be set at no more than 6% while the qualified service member or reservist is on active duty. A holder of a Note that is dependent on such a Member Loan will not receive the difference between 6% and the original stated interest rate for the Member Loan during any such period. 34 Table of Contents This law also permits courts to stay proceedings and execution of judgments against service members and reservists on active duty, which may delay recovery on any Member Loans in default, and, accordingly, payments on Notes that are dependent on these Member Loans. If there are any amounts under such a Member Loan still due and owing to us after the final maturity of the Notes that correspond to the Member Loan, we will have no further obligation to make payments on the Notes, even if we later receive payments after the final maturity of the Notes. We do not take military service into account in assigning loan grades to borrower Member Loan requests. In addition, as part of the borrower member registration process, we do not request our borrower members to confirm if they are a qualified service member or reservists within the meaning of the SCRA. The death of a borrower member may substantially impair your ability to recoup the full purchase price of Notes that are dependent on the Member Loan to that borrower member or to receive the interest payments that you expect to receive on the Notes. All borrower members are individuals. If a borrower member with outstanding obligations under a Member Loan dies while the Member Loan is outstanding, we will generally seek to work with the executor of the estate of the borrower member to obtain repayment of the Member Loan. However, the borrower member’s estate may not contain sufficient assets to repay the Member Loan on which your Note is dependent. In addition, if a borrower member dies near the end of the term of an unsecured Member Loan, it is unlikely that any further payments will be made on the Notes corresponding to such Member Loan, because the time required for the probate of the estate may extend beyond the initial maturity date and the final maturity date of the Notes. The LendingClub platform allows a borrower member to prepay a Member Loan at any time without penalty. Borrower member loan prepayments will extinguish or limit your ability to receive additional interest payments on a Note. Borrower Member Loan prepayment occurs when a borrower member decides to pay some or all of the principal amount on a Member Loan earlier than originally scheduled. A borrower member may decide to prepay all or a portion of the remaining principal amount at any time without penalty. In the event of a prepayment of the entire remaining unpaid principal amount of a Member Loan on which the Notes are dependent, you will receive your share of such prepayment, net of our 1.00% service fee applicable to Notes, but further interest will not accrue after the date on which the payment is made. If a borrower member prepays a portion of the remaining unpaid principal balance on a Member Loan on which the Notes are dependent, we will reduce the outstanding principal amount and interest will cease to accrue on the prepaid portion. The combination of the reduced principal amount and the unchanged monthly payment cause the effective term of the Member Loan to decline. If a borrower member prepays a Member Loan in full or in part, you will not receive all of the interest payments that you originally expected to receive on Notes that are dependent on that Member Loan, and you may not be able to find a similar rate of return on another investment at the time at which the Member Loan is prepaid. Prepayments of loans passed onto Note holders are subject to our 1.00% service charge, even if the prepayment occurs immediately after issuance of your Note. The return on the Note may actually be negative if prepayment occurs within the first few months after issuance. We permit borrowers who have remained in good standing for a period of at least six months the ability to take out a second loan through our platform. We do not prohibit such borrowers from using the proceeds of a second loan to repay the first loan and there are circumstances in which a borrower will take out a second loan on our platform to repay the first loan. We will benefit from receiving a loan origination fee and servicing fees on each of the two loans, but an investor may not enjoy the benefit of investing in the Notes related to the two loans. Prevailing interest rates may change during the term of the Member Loan on which your Note is dependent. If this occurs, you may receive less value from your purchase of the Note in comparison to other investment opportunities. Additionally, borrower members may prepay their Member Loans due to changes in interest rates, and you may not be able to redeploy the amounts you receive from prepayments in a way that offers you the return you expected to receive from the Notes. The Member Loans on which the Notes are dependent have a term of three or five years and bear fixed, not floating, rates of interest. If prevailing interest rates increase, the interest rates on Notes you purchased might be less than the current rate of return you could earn if you invested your purchase price in other investments. While you may still receive a return on your purchase price for the Notes through the receipt of amounts equal to the interest portion of a borrower member’s payments on the Member Loan, if prevailing interest rates exceed the rate of interest payable on the Member Loan, the payments you receive during the term of the Note may not reflect the full opportunity cost to you when you take into account factors such as the time value of money. There is no prepayment penalty for borrower members who prepay their Member Loans. If prevailing interest rates on consumer loans decrease, borrower members may choose to prepay their Member Loans with money they borrow from other sources or other resources, and you may not receive the interest payments on Notes dependent on those Member Loans that you expect to receive or be able to find an alternative use of your money to realize a similar rate of return at the time at which the Note is prepaid. 35 Table of Contents Investor funds in an investor account do not earn interest. Your investor account that enables you to purchase Notes represents an interest in a pooled demand deposit account maintained by us “in trust for” investors (“ITF account”) that does not earn interest. Similarly your investor account that enables you to purchase represents either a discrete or pooled demand deposit account maintained by an independent custodian “as custodian for” investors that does not earn interest. Investor funds committed to purchase Notes represent binding commitments, and such committed funds may not be withdrawn from member investor accounts (unless and until corresponding Member Loans included in the order are not funded, in which case the corresponding funds become available to the investor again). Funds committed to purchase Notes will not earn interest in the ITF account or custodial accounts, respectively, and interest will not begin to accrue on a Note until the corresponding Member Loan has closed and the Note is issued. The Notes will not be listed on any securities exchange, will not be transferable except for Notes transferable through the Note Trading Platform by FOLIOfn, and must be held only by LendingClub investors. You should be prepared to hold the Notes you purchase until they mature. The Notes will not be listed on any securities exchange. All Notes must be held by LendingClub members. The Notes will not be transferable except through the Note Trading Platform by FOLIOfn Investments, Inc. (“FOLIOfn”), a registered broker-dealer and the trading platform is not available to residents of all states. There can be no assurance that an active market for Notes will develop on the trading platform, that there will be a buyer for any particular Notes listed for resale on the trading platform or that the trading platform will continue to operate. Therefore, investors must be prepared to hold their Notes to maturity. The U.S. federal income tax consequences of an investment in the Notes are uncertain. There are no statutory provisions, regulations, published rulings, or judicial decisions that directly address the characterization of the Notes, or instruments similar to the Notes, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, although the matter is not free from doubt, we intend to treat the Notes as our indebtedness for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result of such treatment, the Notes will have original issue discount, or OID, for U.S. federal income tax purposes because payments on the Notes are dependent on payments on the corresponding Member Loan. Further, a holder of a Note, other than a holder that is holding the Note in a tax deferred account such as an IRA, will be required to include the OID in income as ordinary interest income for U.S. federal income tax purposes as it accrues (which may be in advance of interest being paid on the Note), regardless of such holder’s regular method of accounting. This characterization is not binding on the IRS, and the IRS may take contrary positions. Any differing treatment of the Notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes could significantly affect the amount, timing and character of income, gain or loss in respect of an investment in the Notes. Accordingly, all prospective purchasers of the Notes are advised to consult their own tax advisors regarding the U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax consequences of the purchase and ownership of Notes (including any possible differing treatments of the Notes). RISKS RELATED TO LENDINGCLUB AND THE LENDINGCLUB PLATFORM We have a limited operating history. As an online company in the early stages of development, we face increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. To be successful, the number of borrower members and its investors and the volume of member loans originated through our platform will need to increase, which will require us to increase our facilities, personnel and infrastructure to accommodate the greater servicing obligations and demands on our platform. Our platform is dependent upon our website to maintain current listings and transactions in the member loans and Notes. We must constantly add new hardware and update our software and website, expand our customer support services and retain an appropriate number of employees to maintain the operations of our platform, as well as to satisfy our servicing obligations on the member loans and make payments on the Notes. If we are unable to increase the capacity of our platform and maintain the necessary infrastructure, you may experience delays in receipt of payments on the Notes and periodic downtime of our systems. We have incurred net losses in the past and have only recently become operating cash flow positive. If we are unable to sustain our positive growth and become insolvent or bankrupt, you may lose your investment. As of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was $57.6 million and our total stockholders’ deficit was $50.8 million. Our net loss for the nine month period ended December 31, 2012, was $4.2 million. For the nine month period ended December 31, 2012 we were operating cash-flow positive and we believe that will continue operating at or near breakeven between now and the end of our current fiscal year. However, if our assumptions regarding our growth and operating plan are incorrect, we may need to slow our 36 Table of Contents investment spending and/or find new funding to continue to operate our business. We currently believe that such funding would be available to us on terms that we would find acceptable. Any delay in securing, or failing to secure, any necessary funding could result in delays and operational slowdowns that could adversely affect the regularity of our processing payments, the cash flows on your investment and ultimately the value of your investment. If we are unable to increase transaction volumes, our business and results of operations will be affected adversely. To succeed, we must increase transaction volumes on our platform by attracting a large number of borrower members and investors in a cost-effective manner, many of whom have not previously participated in an online financial community. We have experienced a high number of inquiries from potential borrower members who do not meet our criteria for submitting a Member Loan request. We have also experienced, from time to time, Member Loan requests for amounts that exceed the aggregate amount of investor purchase commitments. If there are not sufficient qualified loan requests, investors may be unable to deploy their capital in a timely or efficient manner. If there are not sufficient investor purchase commitments, borrowers may be unable to obtain funding for their loans and become discouraged from using our platform for their borrowing needs. If we are not able to attract qualified borrower members and sufficient investor purchase commitments, we will not be able to increase our transaction volumes. Additionally, we rely on a variety of methods to drive traffic to our website. If we are unable to use any of our current or future marketing initiatives or the cost of these initiatives were to significantly increase, we may not be able to attract new members in a cost-effective manner and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be affected adversely, which may impair our ability to maintain our platform. The market in which we participate is competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The consumer lending market is competitive and rapidly changing. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase volume on our platform. Our principal competitors include major banking institutions, credit unions, credit card issuers and other consumer finance companies, as well as other online lending platforms. Competition could result in reduced volumes, reduced fees or the failure of our online lending platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. In addition, in the future we may experience new competition from more established internet companies who possess large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels. If any of these companies or any major financial institution decided to enter the online lending business, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our operating results could be harmed. Most of our current or potential competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their platforms and distribution channels. Our potential competitors may also have longer operating histories, more extensive customer bases, greater brand recognition and broader customer relationships than we have. These competitors may be better able to develop new products, to respond quickly to new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. Our industry is driven by constant innovation. If we are unable to compete with such companies and meet the need for innovation, the demand for our platform could stagnate or substantially decline. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand in a cost-effective manner, we may lose market share and our revenue may decrease. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our online financial community and attracting new members. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and the member experience on our platform. Historically, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expense, and it is likely that our future marketing efforts will require us to incur significant additional expenses. These brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues and, even if they do, any revenue increases may not offset the expenses we incur to promote our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may lose our existing members to our competitors or be unable to attract new members, which would cause our revenue to decrease and may impair our ability to maintain our platform. 37 Table of Contents Our arrangements for backup servicing are limited. If we fail to maintain operations, you will experience a delay and increased cost in respect of your expected principal and interest payments on the Notes, and we may be unable to collect and process repayments from borrower members. We have made arrangements for only limited backup servicing. If our platform were to fail or we became insolvent, we would attempt to transfer our Member Loan servicing obligations to our third party back-up servicer. There can be no assurance that this back-up servicer will be able to adequately perform the servicing of the outstanding Member Loans. If this back-up servicer assumes the servicing of the Member Loans, the back-up servicer will impose additional servicing fees, reducing the amounts available for payments on the Notes. Additionally, transferring these servicing obligations to our back-up servicer may result in delays in the processing and recovery of information with respect to amounts owed on the Member Loans or, if our platform becomes inoperable, may prevent us from servicing the Member Loans and making principal and interest payments on the Notes. If our back-up servicer is not able to service the Member Loans effectively, investors’ ability to receive principal and interest payments on their Notes may be substantially impaired. If we were to become subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, the rights of the holders of the Notes could be uncertain, and payments on the Notes may be limited and suspended or stopped. The Notes are unsecured and holders of the Notes do not have a security interest in the corresponding Member Loans or the proceeds of those corresponding Member Loans. The recovery, if any, of a holder on a Note may be substantially delayed and substantially less than the principal and interest due and to become due on the Note. Even funds held by us in accounts “in trust for” the holders of Notes may potentially be at risk. If we were to become subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, the recovery, if any, of a holder of a Note may be substantially delayed in time and may be substantially less in amount than the principal and interest due and to become due on the Note. A bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us may cause delays in borrower member payments. Borrower members may delay payments to us on account of Member Loans because of the uncertainties occasioned by a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of ua, even if the borrower members have no legal right to do so, and such delay would reduce, at least for a time, the funds that might otherwise be available to pay the Notes corresponding to those Member Loans. A bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us may cause delays in payments on Notes. The commencement of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding may, as a matter of law, prevent us from making regular payments on the Notes, even if the funds to make such payments are available. Because a bankruptcy or similar proceeding may take months or years to complete, the suspension of payment may effectively reduce the value of any recovery that a holder of a Note may receive (and no such recovery can be assured) by the time any recovery is available. Interest accruing upon and following a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us may not be paid. In bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, interest accruing on the Notes during the preceding may not be part of the allowed claim of a holder of a Note. If the holder of a Note receives a recovery on the Note (and no such recovery can be assured), any such recovery may be based on, and limited to, the claim of the holder of the Note for principal and for interest accrued up to the date of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding, but not thereafter. Because a bankruptcy or similar proceeding may take months or years to complete, a claim based on principal and on interest only up to the start of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding may be substantially less than a claim based on principal and on interest through the end of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us there may be uncertainty regarding whether a holder of a Note has any priority right to payment from the corresponding Member Loan. The Notes are unsecured and holders of the Notes do not have a security interest in the corresponding Member Loans or the proceeds of those corresponding Member Loans. Accordingly, the holder of a Note may be required to share the proceeds of the corresponding Member Loan with any other creditor of ours that has rights in those proceeds. If such sharing of proceeds is deemed appropriate, those proceeds that are either held by us in the clearing account at the time of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding of ours, or not yet received by us from borrower members at the time of the commencement of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding, may be at greater risk than those proceeds that are already held by us in the “in trust for,” or ITF, account at the time of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding. To the extent that proceeds of the corresponding Member Loan would be shared with other creditors of ours, any secured or priority rights of such other creditors may cause the proceeds to be distributed to such other creditors before, or ratably with, any distribution made to you on your Note. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, there may be uncertainty regarding whether a holder of a Note has any right of payment from assets of ours other than the corresponding Member Loan. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, it is possible that a Note could be deemed to have a right of payment only from proceeds of the corresponding Member Loan and not from any other assets of us, in which case the holder of the Note may not be entitled to share the proceeds of such other assets of us with other creditors of ours, whether or not, as described above, such other creditors would be entitled to share in the proceeds of the Member loan corresponding to the Note. Alternatively, it is possible that a Note could be deemed to have a right of payment from both the Member loan corresponding to the Note and from some or all other assets of ours, for example, based upon the automatic acceleration of the principal obligations on the Note upon the commencement of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, in which case the holder of the Note may be entitled to share the proceeds of such other assets of ours with other creditors of us, whether or not, as described above, such other creditors would be entitled to share in the proceeds of the Member Loan corresponding to the Note. To the extent that proceeds of such other assets would be shared with other creditors of ours, any secured or priority rights of such other creditors may cause the proceeds to be distributed to such other creditors before, or ratably with, any distribution made to you on your Note. 38 Table of Contents In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, there may be uncertainty regarding the rights of a holder of a Note, if any, to payment from funds in the clearing account. If a borrower member has paid us on a Member Loan corresponding to a Note before a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us is commenced, and those funds are held in the clearing account and have not been used by us to make payments on the Note as of the date the bankruptcy or similar proceeding is commenced, there can be no assurance that we will or will be able to use such funds to make payments on the Note. Other creditors of ours may be deemed to have, or actually have, rights to such funds that are equal to or greater than the rights of the holder of the Note. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, there may be uncertainty regarding the rights of a holder of a Note, if any, to access funds in the ITF account. If a borrower has paid us on a Member Loan corresponding to a Note before a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us is commenced, and those funds have been used by us to make payments on the Note prior to the date the bankruptcy or similar proceeding is commenced, but the payments on the Note continue to be held by us in an ITF account, there can be no assurance that the holder of the Note will have immediate access to the funds constituting the payment or that the funds constituting the payment will ultimately be released to the holder of the Note. While the Trust Agreement states that funds in the ITF account are trust property and are not intended to be property of ours or subject to claims of our creditors generally, there can be no assurance that, if the matter were to be litigated, such litigation would not delay or prevent the holder of a Note from accessing the portion of those funds in which the holder has an interest. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, there may be uncertainty regarding the rights of a holder of a Note, if any, to the return of the purchase price of a Note if the corresponding Member Loan has not been funded. If the purchase price of a Note is paid to us and a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us is commenced, the holder of the Note may not be able to obtain a return of the funds constituting the purchase price, even if the Member Loan corresponding to the Note has not been funded as of the date that the bankruptcy or similar proceeding is commenced and even if the funds are held by us in the ITF account. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, the holder of a Note may be delayed or prevented from enforcing our repurchase obligations in cases of confirmed identity fraud. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, any right of a holder of Note to require us to repurchase the Note as a result of a confirmed identity fraud incident may not be specifically enforced, and such holder’s claim for such repurchase may be treated less favorably than a general unsecured obligation of ours as described and subject to the limitations in this “Risks Related to LendingClub and the LendingClub Platform – If we were to become subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding” section. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, the implementation of back-up servicing arrangements may be delayed or prevented. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of us, our ability to transfer servicing obligations to our back-up servicer may be limited and subject to the approval of the bankruptcy court or other presiding authority. The bankruptcy process may delay or prevent the implementation of back-up servicing, which may impair the collection of Member Loans to the detriment of the Notes. We rely on third-party banks to disburse Member Loan proceeds and process Member Loan payments, and we rely on third-party computer hardware and software. If we are unable to continue utilizing these services, our business and ability to service the Member Loans on which the Notes are dependent may be adversely affected. We rely on a third-party bank to disburse the net proceeds of newly originated Member Loans. Additionally, because we are not a bank, we cannot belong to and directly access the ACH payment network, and we must rely on an FDIC-insured depository institution to process our transactions, including loan payments and remittances to holders of the Notes. We currently use Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. for these purposes. Under the ACH rules, if we experience a high rate of reversed transactions (known as “chargebacks”), we may be subject to sanctions and potentially disqualified from using the system to process payments. We also rely on computer hardware purchased and software licensed from third parties to operate our platform. This purchased or licensed hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot continue to obtain such services from this institution or elsewhere, or if we cannot transition to another processor quickly, our ability to process payments will suffer and your ability to receive principal and interest payments on the Notes will be delayed or impaired. If the security of our members’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, your secure information may be stolen, our reputation may be harmed, and we may be exposed to liability. Our platform stores our borrower members’ and investors’ bank information and other personally-identifiable sensitive data. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could cause your secure information to be stolen and used for criminal purposes. Security breaches or unauthorized access to secure information could also expose us to liability related to the loss of the information, time-consuming and expensive litigation and negative publicity. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party or disaffected employee obtains unauthorized access to any of our members’ data, our relationships with our members will be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability. 39 Table of Contents Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach are costly to implement and often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our members to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, and we could lose members. Our ability to service the Member Loans or maintain accurate accounts may be adversely affected by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. The highly automated nature of our platform may make it an attractive target and potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. If a “hacker” were able to infiltrate our platform, you would be subject to an increased risk of fraud or borrower identity theft, and may experience losses on, or delays in the recoupment of amounts owed on, a fraudulently induced purchase of a Note and Certificates. Additionally, if a hacker were able to access our secure files, he or she might be able to gain access to your personal information. While we have taken steps to prevent such activity from affecting our platform, if we are unable to prevent such activity, the value in the Notes and our ability to fulfill our servicing obligations and to maintain our platform would be adversely affected. Any significant disruption in service on our website or in our computer systems could reduce the attractiveness of our platform and result in a loss of members. If a catastrophic event resulted in a platform outage and physical data loss, our ability to perform our servicing obligations would be materially and adversely affected. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology and our underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of customer service, reputation and ability to attract new members and retain existing members. Our system hardware is hosted in a hosting facility located in Las Vegas, Nevada, owned and operated by SwitchNet. We also maintain a real time backup system located in Santa Clara, CA owned and operated by SAVVIS. SwitchNet does not guarantee that our members’ access to our website will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on SwitchNet’s ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, air quality, temperature, humidity and other environmental concerns, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. If our arrangement with SwitchNet is terminated, or there is a lapse of service or damage to SwitchNet facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of SwitchNet other third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with our members and our reputation. Additionally, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. Our disaster recovery plan has not been tested under actual disaster conditions, and we may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage at a SwitchNet facility. These factors could prevent us from processing or posting payments on the Member Loans or the Notes, damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees’ attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause members to abandon our platform, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees whom we need to support our business. Competition for highly skilled technical and financial personnel is extremely intense. We may not be able to hire and retain these personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring and training their replacements and the quality of our services and our ability to serve our members could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. 40 Table of Contents Our growth could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Our growth in headcount and operations since our inception has placed, and will continue to place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial reporting infrastructure. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our senior management to manage the growth we achieve effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. If our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and update our reporting procedures and systems. The addition of new employees and the system development that we anticipate will be necessary to manage our growth will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we will be unable to execute our business plan. If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, our Founder/Chief Executive Officer is critical to the management of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction. The loss of the services of Mr. Laplanche or other executive officers or key personnel and the process to replace any of our key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. It may be difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our ability to maintain our platform and arrange Member Loans depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology.We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology effectively, however, which would allow competitors to duplicate our products and adversely affect our ability to compete with them. A third party may attempt to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without our consent. In addition, our platform may infringe upon claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from such other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. Furthermore, our technology may become obsolete, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully develop, obtain or use new technologies to adapt our platform to compete with other person-to-person lending platforms as they develop. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology from intellectual property challenges, or if the platform becomes obsolete, our ability to maintain the platform, arrange Member Loans or perform our servicing obligations on the Member Loans could be adversely affected. Purchasers of Notes will have no control over us and will not be able to influence our corporate matters. The Notes offered through our platform grant no equity interest in LendingClub to the purchaser nor grant the purchaser the ability to vote on or influence our corporate decisions. As a result, our stockholders will continue to exercise 100% voting control over all our corporate matters, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. Neither the Notes or the related indenture restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Any additional debt we incur may increase our risk of bankruptcy, which could impair your ability to receive the principal and interest payments you expect to receive on your Notes. If we incur additional debt after the Notes are issued, it may adversely affect our creditworthiness generally, and could result in the financial distress, insolvency, or bankruptcy of LendingClub. As discussed above, the financial distress, insolvency or bankruptcy of LendingClub could impair your ability to receive the principal and interest payments you expect to receive on your Notes. Events beyond our control may damage our ability to maintain adequate records, maintain our platform or perform our servicing obligations. If such events result in a system failure, your ability to receive principal and interest payments on the Notes would be substantially harmed. If a catastrophic event resulted in our platform outage and physical data loss, our ability to perform our servicing obligations would be materially and adversely affected. Such events include, but are not limited to, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, computer viruses and telecommunications failures. We store back-up records in offsite facilities located in Las Vegas, Nevada and Santa Clara, California. If our electronic data storage and back-up storage system are affected by such events, we cannot guarantee that you would be able to recoup your investment in the Notes. 41 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO COMPLIANCE AND REGULATION Our platform is a novel approach to borrowing that may fail to comply with borrower protection laws such as state usury laws, other interest rate limitations or federal and state consumer protection laws such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and their state counterparts. Borrower members may make counterclaims regarding the enforceability of their obligations after collection actions have commenced, or otherwise seek damages under these laws. Compliance with such regimes is also costly and burdensome. Our platform operates a novel program that must comply with regulatory regimes applicable to all consumer credit transactions. The novelty of our platform means compliance with various aspects of such laws is untested. Certain state laws generally regulate interest rates and other charges and require certain disclosures. In addition, other state laws, public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers, unfair and deceptive practices and debt collection practices may apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the Member Loans. Our platform is also subject to other federal and state laws, such as: • Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated thereunder, and similar state laws, which require certain disclosures to borrower members regarding the terms of their Member Loans; • Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated thereunder, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, marital status, national origin, receipt of public assistance or the exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, in the extension of credit; • Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use and reporting of information related to each borrower member’s credit history; and • Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar state debt collection laws, which regulate debt collection practices by “debt collectors” and prohibit debt collectors from engaging in certain practices in collecting, and attempting to collect, outstanding consumer loans. We may not always have been, and may not always be, in compliance with these laws. Compliance with these requirements is also costly, time-consuming and limits our operational flexibility. If our platform was found to violate a state’s usury laws, your investment may lose substantial value and you may lose all of the interest due on your Note. The interest rates that are charged to borrowers and that form the basis of payments to investors on our Notes are based upon the ability of WebBank, the issuer of the loan, to export the interest rates of Utah to provide for uniform rates to all borrowers. Federal law provides WebBank the authority to charge these interest rates. The current rates offered by WebBank though our platform range from approximately 6.78% to 27.99%. Of the forty-four jurisdictions whose residents may obtain loans (including the District of Columbia), only seven states (Arizona, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, South Carolina, South Dakota and Utah) have no interest rate limitations on consumer loans, while all other jurisdictions have a maximum rate less than the current maximum rate offered by WebBank through our platform. If a borrower were to successfully bring a claim against us for a state usury law violation and the rate on the loan and Note underlying that borrower was greater than that allowed under applicable state law, the value of your investment may decline as you would not receive the total amount of interest you expected from your investment, and in some cases you may not receive any interest or principal. We may also be subject to fines and penalties. Moreover, such a finding could substantially harm our ability to operate our business in the manner currently contemplated. Non-compliance with laws and regulations may impair our ability to arrange or service Member Loans. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements applicable to our business may, among other things, limit our, or a collection agency’s, ability to collect all or part of the principal amount of or interest on the Member Loans on which the Notes are dependent for payment. In addition, our non-compliance could subject us to damages, revocation of required licenses or other authorities, class action lawsuits, administrative enforcement actions, and civil and criminal liability, which may harm our business and ability to maintain our platform and may result in borrower members rescinding their Member Loans. Where applicable, we seek to comply with state small loan, loan broker, servicing and similar statutes. Currently, we do not provide services to borrowers in Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Maine, Mississippi, Nebraska and North Dakota. In all other U.S. jurisdictions with licensing or other requirements we believe may be applicable to make loans, we have obtained any necessary licenses or comply with the relevant requirements. Nevertheless, if we are found to not comply with applicable laws, we could lose one or more of our licenses or authorizations or face other sanctions or be required to obtain a license in such jurisdiction, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to continue to facilitate the origination of Member Loans through our platform, perform our servicing obligations or make our platform available to borrower members in particular states, which may impair your ability to receive the payments of principal and interest on the Notes that you expect to receive. 42 Table of Contents We rely on our agreement with WebBank to lend to qualified borrower members on a uniform basis throughout the United States. If our relationship with WebBank were to end, we may need to rely on individual state lending licenses to arrange Member Loans. Borrower Member Loan requests take the form of an application to WebBank, which currently makes all loans to our borrower members who request loans through our platform, and allows our platform to be available to borrowers on a uniform basis throughout the United States. If our relationship with WebBank were to end or if WebBank were to cease operations, we may need to rely on individual state lending licenses to originate Member Loans. Because we do not currently possess state lending licenses in every U.S. state, we may be required to discontinue lending or limit the rates of interest charged on Member Loans in some states. We may face increased costs and compliance burdens if our agreement with WebBank is terminated. Several lawsuits have sought to re-characterize certain loan marketers and other originators as lenders. If litigation on similar theories were successful against us, borrower loans facilitated through our platform could be subject to state consumer protection laws in a greater number of states. Several lawsuits have brought under scrutiny the association between high-interest “payday loan” marketers and out-of-state banks. These lawsuits assert that payday loan marketers use out-of-state lenders in order to evade the consumer protection laws imposed by the states where they do business. Such litigation has sought to re-characterize the loan marketer as the lender for purposes of state consumer protection law restrictions. Similar civil actions have been brought in the context of gift cards. We believe that our activities are distinguishable from the activities involved in these cases. Additional state consumer protection laws would be applicable to the Member Loans facilitated through our platform if we were re-characterized as a lender, and the borrower loans could be voidable or unenforceable. In addition, we could be subject to claims by borrower members, as well as enforcement actions by regulators. Even if we were not required to cease doing business with residents of certain states or to change our business practices to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to register or obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on us. To date, no actions have been taken or threatened against us on the theory that we have engaged in unauthorized lending; however, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. As internet commerce develops, federal and state governments may draft and propose new laws to regulate internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal and state governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively affected by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to lending. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our members in the form of increased fees. In addition, federal and state governmental or regulatory agencies may decide to impose taxes on services provided over the Internet. These taxes could discourage the use of the Internet as a means of consumer lending, which would adversely affect the viability of our platform. Our legal compliance burdens and costs have significantly increased as a result of operating as a public company. Our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance matters. The Notes are publicly registered thereby making us subject to certain reporting requirements of the Securities Act of 1934. Accordantly, we face costly compliance burdens, requiring significant legal, accounting and other expenses. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to SEC reporting compliance requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, we performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404A of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although through such testing we discovered no material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2012, subsequent testing by us or our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. To comply with Section 404A, we may incur substantial accounting expense, expend significant management time on compliance-related issues, and hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404A in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. 43 Table of Contents If we discover a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which we are unable to remedy, or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. We are not currently required to have an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm has not performed such an audit. Should such a requirement arise and should we or our auditors discover a material weakness in our internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. If we are required to register under the Investment Company Act, our ability to conduct our business could be materially adversely affected. The Investment Company Act of 1940, or the “Investment Company Act,” contains substantive legal requirements that regulate the manner in which “investment companies” are permitted to conduct their business activities. We believe we have conducted, and we intend to continue to conduct, our business in a manner that does not result in our company being characterized as an investment company. If, however, we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were deemed to be an investment company, we may also attempt to seek exemptive relief from the SEC, which could impose significant costs and delays on our business. If our registered investment adviser, LC Advisors, LLC, were found to have violated tine Investment Company Act, our ability to raise sufficient investor purchase commitments to meet borrower demand could be impaired. Our subsidiary, LC Advisors, LLC, acts as an advisor to certain private funds and accredited investors who make large investor purchase commitments to invest in Trust certificates, representing borrower loans. Our ability to continue to advise these private funds and accredited investors depends on the continuing operation of LC Advisors. We believe we have conducted, and we intend to continue to conduct, the business of LC Advisors in substantial compliance with the Investment Company Act. If, however, we are deemed to have breached any of our obligations under the Investment Company Act, the activities of LC Advisors could be restricted, suspended or event terminated. If this were to occur, our ability to raise investor purchase commitments through these vehicles could be severely curtailed, and we may not be able to sufficiently meet demand for borrower loans. This could harm our business and make it difficult for both borrowers and investors to meet demand. We have not reviewed our compliance with foreign laws regarding the participation of non-U.S. residents on our platform. From time to time, non-U.S. residents purchase Notes directly on our platform. As of December 31, 2012, the percentage of Notes held (based upon dollar amounts) by such persons against all Notes issued since inception was approximately 3.0%. As we have not reviewed, the compliance of these sales with applicable foreign law, these sales of Notes could result in fines and penalties payable by us. Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives Have Imposed Restrictions and Requirements on Financial Institutions That Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. The financial industry is becoming more highly regulated. Legislation has been introduced recently by both U.S. and foreign governments relating to financial institutions and markets, including alternative asset management funds that would result in increased oversight and taxation. There has been, and may continue to be, a related increase in regulatory investigations of the trading and other investment activities of alternative investment funds. Such investigations may impose additional expenses by us, may require the attention of senior management and may result in fines if any of our funds are deemed to have violated any regulations. Partly in response to the recent financial crisis, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Few provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, with various provisions becoming effective in stages. Many of the rules required to be implemented by governmental agencies still have not been promulgated or implemented. These rules have or expect to increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation. Compliance with such legislation or regulation may, among other effects, significantly increase our costs, limit our product offerings and operating flexibility, require significant adjustments in our internal business processes, and possibly require us to maintain our regulatory capital at levels above historical practices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 44 Table of Contents 