Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition and, general economic conditions. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. Risks Related to our Business and Industry We are highly dependent upon the strong market acceptance of Abraxane®. Our future profitability is highly dependent on the strong market acceptance of Abraxane®. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, total Abraxane® revenue was $314.5 million, $335.6 million and $324.7 million, respectively. Included in Abraxane revenue in each year for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $36.4 million of recognized deferred revenue relating to the co-promotion agreement with AstraZeneca. The co-promotion agreement ended in January 2009. Because Abraxane® is our only approved product, Abraxane® revenue represented approximately 87.6%, 97.2% and 97.3% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We anticipate that sales of Abraxane® will remain a substantial portion of our total revenue over the next several years. However, a number of pharmaceutical companies are working to develop alternative formulations of paclitaxel and other cancer drugs and therapies, any of which may compete directly or indirectly with Abraxane® and which might adversely affect the commercial success of Abraxane®. Abraxane® could lose market share or revenue due to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • lower prices offered on similar products by other manufacturers, including generic forms of Taxol or other taxanes; • substitute or alternative products or therapies; • development by others of new pharmaceutical products or treatments that are more effective than Abraxane®; • introduction of other generic equivalents or products that may be therapeutically interchanged with Abraxane®; • interruptions in manufacturing or supply; • changes in the prescribing practices of physicians; • changes in third-party reimbursement practices; and • migration of key customers to other manufacturers or sellers. In addition, we will continue to make a significant investment in Abraxane®, including costs associated with conducting clinical trials and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals for the use of Abraxane® in other 23 Table of Contents indications and settings and in other jurisdictions, expansion of our marketing, sales and manufacturing staff, the acquisition of paclitaxel raw material, expansion of manufacturing facilities and the manufacture of finished product. The success of Abraxane® in the Phase III trial for metastatic breast cancer and other clinical trials may not be representative of future clinical trial results for Abraxane® with respect to other clinical indications. The results from clinical, pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials conducted to date may not be predictive of results to be obtained in later clinical trials, including those ongoing at present. Further, the commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • slower than anticipated patient enrollment; • difficulty in finding and retaining patients fitting the trial profile or protocols; and • adverse events occurring during the clinical trials. Proprietary product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We intend to maintain an aggressive research and development program for proprietary pharmaceutical products. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and statistically very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early stage human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, including: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive pre-clinical trial results; • the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve a product candidate for an intended use; • the product candidate was not economical to manufacture and commercialize; • other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to a product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let the product candidate be sold on reasonable terms, or at all; or • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics. In addition, our discovery pipeline includes product candidates in the follow-on biologics area, also known as biosimilars. Although, like all pharmaceutical products, these product candidates must receive appropriate regulatory clearance before they can be marketed and sold in a particular country, including the United States, there does not currently exist a defined abbreviated regulatory approval process for obtaining this approval in the United States. As a result, considerable uncertainty exists regarding the pathway, timing and likelihood of approval for these types of product candidates in the United States. Because of the absence of a defined abbreviated regulatory approval process for biosimilars in the United States, it could take a longer amount of time to obtain regulatory approval for our biosimilar product candidates than for our other product candidates in our discovery pipeline, if at all. Any delay in, or the inability to receive, regulatory approval for our biosimilar product candidates could materially adversely affect our business plan and growth strategy. We may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if side effects or manufacturing problems are identified after our products are on the market. If side effects are identified after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and product recalls, reformulation of products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of products, and changes to or re-approvals of our manufacturing facilities may be required, any of which could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents After products are approved for commercial use, we or regulatory bodies could decide that changes to the product labeling are required. Label changes may be necessary for a number of reasons, including the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy concerns by regulatory agencies or the discovery of significant problems with a similar product that implicates an entire class of products. Any significant concerns raised about the safety or efficacy of our products could also result in the need to recall products, reformulate those products, to conduct additional clinical trials, to make changes to the manufacturing processes, or to seek re-approval of the manufacturing facilities. Significant concerns about the safety and effectiveness of a product could ultimately lead to the revocation of our marketing approval. The revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above could be required even if there is no clearly established connection between the product and the safety or efficacy concerns that have been raised. The revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. If we or our suppliers are unable to comply with ongoing and changing regulatory standards, sales of our products could be delayed or prevented. Virtually all aspects of our business, including the development, testing, manufacturing, processing, quality, safety, efficacy, packaging, labeling, record-keeping, distribution, storage and advertising and promotion of our products and disposal of waste products arising from these activities, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA and the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS OIG). Our business is also subject to similar and/or additional regulation in other countries. Compliance with these regulations is costly and time-consuming. Our manufacturing facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. For example, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with detailed regulations governing current good manufacturing practices, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance. We must spend funds, time and effort in the areas of production, safety, quality control and quality assurance to ensure compliance with these regulations. We cannot assure that our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers will not be subject to regulatory action in the future. Our products generally must receive appropriate regulatory clearance before they can be sold in a particular country, including the United States. We may encounter delays in the introduction of a product as a result of, among other things, insufficient or incomplete submissions to a regulatory agency for approval of a product, objections by another company with respect to our submissions for approval, new patents by other companies, patent challenges by other companies that result in a 180-day exclusivity period, and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development or during the regulatory approval process. Regulatory agencies have the authority to revoke drug approvals previously granted and remove from the market previously approved products for various reasons, including issues related to current good manufacturing practices for that particular product or in general. We may be subject from time to time to product recalls initiated by us or by regulatory authorities. In September and October 2009, we voluntarily initiated a global recall of a total of twenty-five lots of Abraxane® manufactured at the Grand Island, New York facility as a result of particulate matter observed in a small number of vials from the recalled lots. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, the revocation of a prior approval, or product recalls could impose significant costs on us and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. Our inability or the inability of our suppliers to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, consent decrees restricting or suspending our manufacturing operations, delay of approvals for new products, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of sales and criminal prosecution. Any of these or other regulatory actions could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We depend on third parties to supply raw materials and other components and may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which will limit our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and harm our operating results. The manufacture of Abraxane® requires, and our product candidates will require, raw materials and other components that must meet stringent regulatory requirements. Some of these raw materials and other components are available only from a limited number of sources. We have not historically experienced any paclitaxel supply shortages. Additionally, we maintain a safety stock supply of paclitaxel to mitigate any supply disruption. Our regulatory approvals for each particular product denote the raw materials and components, and the suppliers for such materials, we may use for that product. Obtaining approval to change, substitute or add a raw material or component, or the supplier of a raw material or component, can be time consuming and expensive, as testing and regulatory approval are necessary. If our suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or we encounter difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, the manufacture and sale of our products may be disrupted, and our business, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. The injectable pharmaceutical products markets are highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenue will decline and our business will be harmed. The markets for injectable pharmaceutical products are highly competitive, rapidly changing and undergoing consolidation. Abraxane® competes, directly or indirectly, with the primary taxanes in the market place, including Bristol-Myers Squibb’s Taxol® and its generic equivalents and Sanofi-Aventis’ Taxotere® and other cancer therapies. Many pharmaceutical companies have developed and are marketing, or are developing, alternative formulations of paclitaxel and other cancer therapies that may compete directly or indirectly with Abraxane®. In addition, Abraxane currently competes with other cytotoxic agents outside of the taxane class such as capecitabine, gemcitabine, ixabepilone and navelbine. Many of our competitors have significantly greater research and development, financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, regulatory and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of their products, receive greater resources and support for their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, more readily take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, or otherwise more successfully market their products. Any reduction in demand for our products could lead to a decrease in prices, fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced margins, reduced levels of profitability, or loss of market share. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our business and operating results. Other companies may claim that we infringe on their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. The manufacture, use and sale of new products with conflicting patent rights have been subject to substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. A number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions may have filed patent applications or may have been granted patents that cover aspects of our products or our licensors’ products, product candidates or other technologies. Future or existing patents issued to third parties may contain claims that conflict with our products. We may be subject to infringement claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, and third parties could assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to Abraxane®, products that we may develop or products that we may license. We are in the process of appealing the jury ruling in the patent infringement lawsuit with Élan Pharmaceutical Int’l Ltd. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings”. Litigation or interference proceedings could force us to: • stop or delay selling, manufacturing or using products that incorporate or are made using the challenged intellectual property; 26 Table of Contents • pay damages; or • enter into licensing or royalty agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of their outcome, would likely delay the regulatory approval process, be costly and require significant time and attention of key management and technical personnel. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and foreign countries could limit our ability to manufacture or sell our products. We rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, continuing technological innovation and patent protection to preserve our competitive position. We have over 100 issued U.S. and foreign patents, including patents relating to Abraxane® and the technology surrounding Abraxane®. The issued patents covering Abraxane®, and methods of use and preparation of Abraxane®, currently expire through 2018, but we have additional pending U.S. and foreign patent applications pending that could extend the expiration dates. Our patents and those for which we have licensed or will license rights, including for Abraxane®, may be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, and the rights granted in those patents may not provide proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us. We and our licensors may not be able to develop patentable products. Even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us. Third-party patents could reduce the coverage of the patents licensed, or that may be licensed to or owned by us. If patents containing competitive or conflicting claims are issued to third parties, we may be prevented from commercializing the products covered by such patents, or may be required to obtain or develop alternate technology. In addition, other parties may duplicate, design around or independently develop similar or alternative technologies. We may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or using our intellectual property. We generally control and limit access to, and the distribution of, our product documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect this proprietary information, however, unauthorized parties may obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Other parties may independently develop similar know-how or may even obtain access to these technologies. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary information to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary information in these foreign countries. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the courts have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical patents. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. The strategy to license rights to or acquire and commercialize proprietary, biological injectable or other specialty injectable products may not be successful and we may never receive any return on our investment in these products. We may license rights to or acquire products or technologies from third parties. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial and sales and marketing resources, will compete with us to license rights to or acquire these products and technologies. We may not be able to license rights to or acquire these proprietary or other products or technologies on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we obtain rights to a pharmaceutical product and commit to payment terms, including, in some cases, significant up-front license payments, we may not be able to generate product sales sufficient to create a profit or otherwise avoid a loss. 27 Table of Contents A product candidate may fail to result in a commercially successful drug for other reasons, including the possibility that the product candidate may: • be found during clinical trials to be unsafe or ineffective; • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • be difficult or uneconomical to produce in commercial quantities; • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties; or • fail to achieve market acceptance. The marketing strategy, distribution channels and levels of competition with respect to any licensed or acquired product may be different from those of Abraxane® and we may not be able to compete favorably in any new product category. We may become subject to federal or state false claims or other similar litigation brought by private individuals and the government. The Federal False Claims Act (and equivalent state statutes) allows persons meeting specified requirements to bring suit alleging false or fraudulent Medicare or Medicaid claims and to share in any amounts paid to the government in fines or settlement. These suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a health care company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines and/or be excluded from Medicare and Medicaid programs. False claims litigation can lead to civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment and/or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded health programs. Other alternate theories of liability may also be available to private parties seeking redress for such claims. A number of parties have brought claims against numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers, and we cannot be certain that such claims will not be brought against us, or if they are brought, that such claims might not be successful. We may need to change our business practices to comply with changes to, or may be subject to charges under, the fraud and abuse laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and its various state analogues, the federal and state False Claims Act and additional marketing and pricing laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We may have to change our advertising and promotional business practices, or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful due to changes in laws, regulations or rules or due to administrative or judicial findings, which could materially adversely affect our business. We face uncertainty related to pricing and reimbursement and health care reform. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care-related organizations. Effective January 1, 2006 in the U.S., we received a unique reimbursement “J” code for Abraxane® from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. That code allows providers to bill Medicare for the use of Abraxane®. We believe that most major insurers reimburse providers for Abraxane® use consistent with the FDA-approved indication, which we believe is consistent with the reimbursement practices of major insurers for other drugs containing paclitaxel for the same indication. However, reimbursement by such payors is presently undergoing reform, and there is significant uncertainty at this time how this will affect sales of certain pharmaceutical products. There is possible U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, including under Medicaid and Medicare, the importation of prescription drugs that are marketed outside the U.S. and sold at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries. 28 Table of Contents Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental reimbursement legislation or programs govern drug coverage and reimbursement levels in the United States. Federal law requires all pharmaceutical manufacturers to rebate a percentage of their revenue arising from Medicaid-reimbursed drug sales to individual states. For Abraxane® and any other proprietary products that are marketed and sold under new drug applications, manufacturers are required to rebate the greater of (a) 15.1% of the average manufacturer price or (b) the difference between the average manufacturer price and the lowest manufacturer price for products sold during a specified period. Both the federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation, rules and regulations designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care. Existing regulations that affect the price of pharmaceutical and other medical products may also change before any of our products are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product we develop in the future. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and litigation has been filed against a number of pharmaceutical companies in relation to these issues. Additionally, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved injectable pharmaceutical products. Our products may not be considered cost effective or adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an adequate return on our investment. State pharmaceutical marketing compliance and reporting requirements may expose us to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities. In recent years, several states, including California, Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada and West Virginia, in addition to the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports on sales, marketing, pricing and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and available guidance is limited. We are continuing to assess our compliance with these state laws. A failure to act in full compliance with these laws, could result in enforcement action and fines and other penalties and adverse publicity, all of which could harm our business. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. We maintain insurance coverage for product liability claims in the aggregate amount of $100 million, including primary and excess coverages, which we believe is reasonably adequate coverage. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could exceed policy limits, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for these products. We depend heavily on the principal members of our management and research and development teams, the loss of whom could harm our business. We depend heavily on the principal members of our management and research and development teams, including Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong, Executive Chairman, and Bruce J. Wendel, Chief Executive Officer. Each of the members of the executive management team is employed “at will.” The loss of the services of any member of the executive management team may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development or business objectives. To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the inability to do so could seriously harm our business and operations. To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees. We face competition for qualified scientific, technical and other personnel, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We also must continue to attract and motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals. 29 Table of Contents If we are unable to integrate successfully potential future acquisitions, our business may be harmed. As part of our business strategy and growth plan, we may acquire businesses, technologies or products that we believe will complement our business. The process of integrating an acquired business, technology or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our existing business. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that any acquired company achieved or might have achieved separately. Successful integration of the companies that we may acquire will depend upon our ability to, among other things, eliminate redundancies and excess costs. As a result of difficulties associated with combining operations, we may not be able to achieve cost savings and other benefits that the company might hope to achieve with acquisitions. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or have an undesirable impact on our financial statements. We are subject to risks associated with international operations, which could harm both our domestic and international operations. As part of our business strategy and growth plan, we continue to evaluate international expansion opportunities as we obtain regulatory approvals to market our Abraxane® and other product candidates in foreign countries, including countries in the European Union and Asia. Expansion of our international operations could impose substantial burdens on our resources, divert management’s attention from domestic operations and otherwise harm our business. In addition, international operations are subject to risks, including: • regulatory requirements of differing nations; • inadequate protection of intellectual property; • difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and treaties; • legal uncertainties regarding, and timing delays associated with, tariffs, export licenses and other trade barriers; and • currency fluctuations. Any of these or other factors could adversely affect our ability to compete in international markets and our operating results. We may be required to indemnify APP and may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from APP. Under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, we have agreed to indemnify APP from and after the distribution with respect to all liabilities of Old Abraxis not related to its hospital-based products business and the use by APP of any trademarks or other source identifiers owned by us. Similarly, APP has agreed to indemnify us from and after the distribution with respect to all liabilities of Old Abraxis related to its hospital-based products business and the use by us of any trademarks or other source identifiers owned by APP. Under the terms of the tax allocation agreement, we agreed to indemnify APP against all tax liabilities to the extent they relate to the proprietary products business, and APP agreed to indemnify us against all tax liabilities to the extent they relate to the hospital-based products business. The tax allocation agreement also generally allocates between us and APP any liability for taxes that may arise in connection with the distribution. In September 2008, APP entered into a merger agreement with Fresenius Kabi, a subsidiary of Fresenius SE. Pursuant to the merger agreement, Fresenius acquired all of the outstanding common stock of APP. Pursuant to the tax allocation agreement and the merger agreement, APP received a tax opinion, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to us, that the acquisition should not affect the qualification of the distribution under Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code and the nonrecognition of gain to APP in the 30 Table of Contents distribution. Under the terms of the tax allocation agreement, we are generally liable for, and are required to indemnify APP against, any tax liability arising as a result of the distribution failing to qualify for tax-free treatment unless, notwithstanding such tax opinion, such tax liability is imposed as a result of an acquisition of APP, including the acquisition of APP by Fresenius, or certain other specified acts of APP. Under the terms of the manufacturing agreement, we have agreed to indemnify APP from any damages resulting from a third-party claim caused by or alleged to be caused by (i) our failure to perform our obligations under the manufacturing agreement; (ii) any product liability claim arising from the negligence, fraud or intentional misconduct of us or any of our affiliates or any product liability claim arising from our manufacturing obligations (or any failure or deficiency in our manufacturing obligations) under the manufacturing agreement; (iii) any claim that the manufacture, use or sale of Abraxane® or our pipeline products infringes a patent or any other proprietary right of a third party; or (iv) any recall, product liability claim or other third-party claim not arising from the gross negligence or bad faith of, or intentional misconduct or intentional breach of the manufacturing agreement by APP, by reason of the $100 million limitation of liability described below. We have also agreed to indemnify APP for liabilities that it becomes subject to as a result of its activities under the manufacturing agreement and for which it is not responsible under the terms of the manufacturing agreement. APP has agreed to indemnify us from any damages resulting from a third-party claim caused by or alleged to be caused by (i) APP’s gross negligence, bad faith, intentional misconduct or intentional failure to perform its obligations under the manufacturing agreement; or (ii) any product liability claim arising from the gross negligence or bad faith of, or intentional misconduct or intentional breach of the manufacturing agreement by APP. APP generally will not have any liability for monetary damages to us or third parties in connection with the manufacturing agreement for damages in excess of $100 million in the aggregate. There are no time limits on when an indemnification claim must be brought and no other monetary limits on the amount of indemnification that may be provided. These indemnification obligations could be significant. Our ability to satisfy any of these indemnification obligations will depend upon the future financial strength of our company. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify APP for any substantial obligations. We also cannot assure you that, if APP becomes obligated to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, APP will have the ability to satisfy those obligations. Any indemnification payment by us, or any failure by APP to satisfy its indemnification obligations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We will be dependent upon APP to manufacture Abraxane® for a remaining term of two or three years, and the manufacture of pharmaceutical products is highly regulated. In connection with the separation and distribution agreement, we entered into a manufacturing agreement with APP for the manufacture of Abraxane® and our pipeline products whereby APP agreed to undertake certain of the tasks necessary to manufacture Abraxane® and our pipeline products until December 31, 2011, with this agreement automatically extended by one year if either APP elects to exercise its option to extend the lease on our Melrose Park manufacturing facility or we elect to exercise our option to extend the lease on APP’s Grand Island manufacturing facility. Accordingly, we will be dependent upon APP to manufacture our products. The amount and timing of resources that APP devotes to the manufacture of our products is not within our direct control. Further, in the event of capacity constraints at the manufacturing facilities, the manufacturing agreement provides that the available capacity will be prorated between us and APP according to the parties’ then current use of manufacturing capacity at the relevant facilities. Any loss in manufacturing capacity pursuant to these proration provisions could be detrimental to our business and operating results. While the manufacturing agreement allows us to override these proration provisions, we may only do so by paying APP additional fees under the manufacturing agreement. If we are forced to pay APP additional fees to retain our capacity rights under the manufacturing agreement, it could be detrimental to our operating results. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements and standards that govern both the manufacture of a particular product and the manufacture of these types of products in general. Problems may arise during their manufacture due to a variety of reasons, including 31 Table of Contents equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to loss of the cost of raw materials and components used and lost revenue. If such problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall costs may also be incurred. Under the terms of the manufacturing agreement, we have the final responsibility for release of the products manufactured pursuant to the manufacturing agreement and will bear all expenses in connection with any recall of products, unless the recall is a result of APP’s gross negligence, bad faith, intentional misconduct or intentional breach, in which case APP would bear all costs and expenses related to such product recall, subject to the $100 million limit on liability under the manufacturing agreement. To the extent APP encounters difficulties or problems with respect to the manufacture of our pharmaceutical products, including Abraxane®, this may be detrimental to our business, operating results and reputation. Risks Related To An Investment In Our Common Stock Our executive chairman and entities affiliated with him collectively own a significant percentage of our common stock and could exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of the wishes of other stockholders. Our executive chairman and entities affiliated with him collectively own approximately 82% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations and sales of assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium in such a transaction. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the market for and trading price of our common stock if investors perceive that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Substantial sales of our common stock could depress the market price of our common stock. All of the shares of our common stock issued in connection with the separation, other than shares issued to our affiliates, are eligible for immediate resale in the public market. Although shares issued to our affiliates are not immediately freely tradable, we have granted registration rights to the former ABI shareholders, including our executive chairman. Under the registration rights agreement, the former ABI shareholders will have the right to require us to register all or a portion of the shares of our common stock they received in connection with the separation. In addition, the former ABI shareholders may require us to include their shares in future registration statements that we file and our executive chairman may require us to register shares for resale on a Form S-3 registration statement. 2,000,000 shares of our common stock held by our executive chairman have been registered on the registration statement on Form S-3 that was declared effective by the SEC on July 2, 2009. Upon registration, the registered shares generally will be freely tradeable in the public market without restriction. However, in connection with any underwritten offering, the holders of registrable securities will agree to lock up any other shares for up to 90 days and will agree to a limit on the maximum number of shares that can be registered for the account of the holders of registrable securities under so-called “shelf” registration statements. Substantial sales of our shares, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price for our shares. Our executive chairman and entities affiliated with him beneficially own over 82% of our outstanding common stock. Our stock price may be volatile in response to market and other factors. The market price for our common stock may be volatile and subject to price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the following, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results from the expectations of securities analysts or investors; 32 Table of Contents • revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; • announcements of technological innovation or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisition, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • general technological, market or economic trends; • investor perception of our industry or our prospects; • insider selling or buying; • investors entering into short sale contracts; • regulatory developments affecting our industry; and • additions or departures of key personnel. We are not subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could negatively affect your investment. We elected in our certificate of incorporation to not be subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. An “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns (or, in certain cases, within three years prior, did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. Our decision not to be subject to Section 203 will allow, for example, our executive chairman (who with members of his immediate family and entities affiliated with him beneficially own approximately 82% of our common stock) to transfer shares in excess of 15% of our voting stock to a third-party free of the restrictions imposed by Section 203. This may make us more vulnerable to takeovers that are completed without the approval of our board of directors and/or without giving us the ability to prohibit or delay such takeovers as effectively. These provisions could also limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 Table of Contents 