ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, PROMOTERS, CONTROL PERSONS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 16(a) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT. ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS SIGNATURES PART I Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute “forward-looking statements.” These statements, identified by words such as “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “should,” “expect,” and similar expressions include our expectations and objectives regarding our future financial position, operating results and business strategy. These statements reflect the current views of management with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from those described in the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operation” and elsewhere in this Annual Report. We adv ise you to carefully review the reports and documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), particularly our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Qand our Current Reports on Form 8-K. As used in this Annual Report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “Fero” and the “Company” mean Fero Industries, Inc., unless otherwise indicated. All dollar amounts in this Annual Report are expressed in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise indicated. ITEM 1. Business. OVERVIEW We were incorporated in the State of Colorado on December 11, 2000 under the name Fero Industries, Inc. and were dormant until December 2006. We are a development stage company and have not commenced any operations other than initial corporate formation and capitalization, the building of a central website, www.oil-n-gasbrokerage.net, the acquisition of our domain names and the development of our business plan. It is our intention to create a web portal whereby we plan to serve as an all inclusive information provider for anyone worldwide who is looking to buy, sell or lease anything to do with the exploration and/or production of oil and gas. Principal Products or Services and their Markets We plan to develop our web portal into four areas: 1. an online marketplace; 2. industry classifieds; 3. industry news; and 4. industry links. We plan on generating revenues based on two main sources: a) classified advertisements; and b) display ads. In addition, we will charge a listing fee for any item listed for sale or lease. No fees will be charged for those individuals or concerns responding to these. Display advertisements listing services from geophysical companies, geologists, engineers and oilfield drilling and servicing products on a continual basis will be charged a flat monthly fee plus production costs if we supply the ads. Management believes that the focus of our web portal should be on delivering ease of use and convenience combined with capabilities designed to personalize business transacted over the Internet in the oil and gas industries. We have established a web portal at www.oil-n-gasbrokerage.net. Upon obtaining adequate financing, we plan to refine this portal, include additional content, and begin marketing our services. 4 Online Marketplace The cornerstone of our plan is the development of an online marketplace for oil and gas products, equipment and related items. Our management has perceived an opportunity via the internet to establish a meeting place for the buyers and the sellers who want to enter or find new information with respect to properties, equipment and related products in the oil and gas industries. Oilfield equipment is very large and expensive to move or ship. Exploration and production companies seek equipment within economical distances to bring to their sites. Geophysical expertise is in demand world-wide. There is a huge demand for experienced people from all corners of the globe. We believe that given these factors, a central location to obtain this information is in demand in the oil and gas industries. The marketplace will host a central location for people to view these products. People wishing to list any products in the oil and gas industries for sale or lease will be required to register on our site and we will require them to provide a detailed description of the items that are listed for sale or lease. Individuals who wish to search for items listed for lease or sale on our site will not be charged a fee to search items listed on our site but will be required to register and provide a detailed description of the items which they are looking for. Upon receipt of adequate financing, we plan on providing related services to our members which will include credit verification, delivery scheduling, inspection services and payment settlement with respect to any items which are purchased or leased on our site. Industry Classifieds Our classified system allows users to post classified advertisements on the Internet, including new and used equipment related to the oil and gas industries, employment opportunities, transportation services, and oil and gas products. By posting a classified advertisement on our website, a person can provide a link to a website where information on them might be able to be located. We also plan to work with oil and gas magazines to help promote awareness of its website. Industry News We plan on establishing a preliminary industry news center relating to the oil and gas industries on our website. The industry news center is designed to cater to the needs of geophysists, exploration companies, distribution companies, industry professionals, and potential investors. Industry Links Our vertical trade portal will also provide a directory of industry specific links to other websites on the Internet which will allow a user to conveniently find information and other websites related to the oil and gas industries. We plan to index these links geographically in order to assist the user in obtaining geographically relevant information. Sales and Marketing We plan to create consumer awareness and create branding of our website through some or all of the following methods: Direct Mail – We plan to send information to oil and gas industry professionals about the benefits and services which we plan to offer. Print and Catalog Advertising – We plan for our website to be advertised in a variety of oil and gas industry magazines in order to gain widespread awareness of our website. Internet Advertising – We plan to cross promote our website with other websites in the oil and gas industry. Trade Shows – We plan go to industry trade shows to promote awareness of the products and services which our website has to offer. 5 Distribution People wishing to list any products in the oil and gas industries for sale or lease will be required to register on our site and we will require them to provide a detailed description of the items that are listed for sale or lease. Individuals who wish to search for items listed for lease or sale on our site will not be charged a fee to search items listed on our site but will be required to register and provide a detailed description of the items which they are looking for. Upon receipt of adequate financing, we plan on providing related services to our members which will include credit verification, delivery scheduling, inspection services and payment settlement with respect to any items which are purchased or leased on our site. We plan on generating revenues based on two main sources: a) classified advertisements; and b) display ads. In addition, we will charge a listing fee for any item listed for sale or lease. No fees will be charged for those individuals or concerns responding to these. Display advertisements listing services from geophysical companies, geologists, engineers and oilfield drilling and servicing products on a continual basis will be charged a flat monthly fee plus production costs if we supply the ads. We plan to establish relationships with manufacturers and distributors of oil and gas products in North America and Europe as well as with various industry publications in order to cross promote our website and develop awareness for our online marketplace. While we have no such relationships at present, management believes that it will be able to establish these relationships by drawing on past experience in the oil and gas industry. Failure to establish these relationships could have a material adverse effect upon our business plan. Management also plans to create the initial information content used on our website by drawing on past experience in the oil and gas industry. We plan to hire new employees to internally create and then expand the content of our website, utilize linking software to incorporate other websites' free information directly into the Company's "host" site, and contract for licensed content from other websites whenever needed. While we have no current licensing contracts with Internet content providers, management is familiar with existing Internet content providers and it plans to enter into licensing agreements with Internet content providers per its business plan after raising capital. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses We currently have not submitted any applications for trademarks or patents and own no licenses. We have obtained the right to use the Internet domain names, We do not have and cannot acquire any property rights in an Internet address. To protect our rights to intellectual property in the future, we will rely on a combination of trademark, copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentially agreements. 1. www.oil-n-gasbrokerage.net 10. www.oil-n-gasclassified.com 2. www.oil-n-gas-ionterests.com 11. www.rigavailability.com 3. www.oil-n-gasacquisitions.com 12. www.riglocator.com 4. www.oil-n-gasinvesting.com 13. www.rentdrillingrigs.com 5. www.oil-n-gasworkinginterests.com 14. www.oilrigbuilders.com 6. www.oil-n-gasventures.com 15. www.leasedrillingrig.com 7. www.oil-n-gasproductiondeals.com 16. www.finddrillingrigs.com 8. www.oil-n-gaslistings.com 17. www.oil-n-gaspipe.com 9. www.oil-n-gasdealsforsale.com 6 We plan to license website content information as part of our business plan, but we have no current licensing arrangements and has not commenced licensing negotiations with any entity. We have no current plans for any additional registrations of our intellectual property rights, such as patents, other trademarks, copyrights, franchises, concessions, royalty agreements or labor contracts. We will assess the need for any additional copyrights, trademark or patent applications on an ongoing basis as new intellectual property is created for our website. COMPETITORS We operate in the Internet products, services and content market, which is highly competitive and characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and increasing competition from companies offering communication, information and entertainment services integrated into other products and media properties. We primarily compete with companies to attract users to our website and advertisers to our marketing services. We expect the market to become increasingly competitive if online marketing continues to grow and gain acceptance on a global basis. The principal competitive factors relating to attracting and retaining users include the quality and relevance of our search results, and the usefulness, accessibility, integration and personalization of the online services that we offer as well as the overall user experience on our website. In the case of attracting advertisers, the principal competitive factors are the reach, effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing services as well as the creativity of the marketing solutions that we offer. GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS We are not currently subject to direct federal, state, provincial or local regulation other than regulations applicable to businesses generally or directly applicable to electronic commerce. However, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, specifically, federal, state, foreign and international laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from our users and partners. In addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or other federal, state or international privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentiall y have an adverse effect on our business. A large number of legislative proposals pending before the United States Congress, various state legislative bodies and foreign governments concern data privacy and retention issues related to our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted. Certain proposals, if adopted, could impose requirements that may result in a decrease in our user registrations and revenues. In addition, the interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current data protection policies and practices. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. We do not plan to provide customer information to third parties and, therefore, do not anticipate any current or proposed legislation relating to online privacy to directly affect our proposed activities to a material extent. We are not certain how our business may be affected by the application of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, encryption and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and export or import matters. 7 The vast majority of those laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet. As a result, they do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes in laws intended to address such issues could create uncertainty in the Internet marketplace. That uncertainty could reduce demand for our proposed products or services or increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased service We have incurred losses since our inception. For the year ended June 30, 2008, we generated revenue of $0, and incurred net losses of $34,900. At June 30, 2008 we had working capital deficit of $9,600 and an accumulated deficit of $ 46,200. Our auditors, have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as going concern. As at June 30, 2008 there was no public market for our common stock. Subsequent to June 30, 2008 the common shares of Fero Industries Inc. were listed for quotation on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) on August 7, 2008 under the trading symbol FERO. Our principal offices are located at 17 Reeves Crescent, Red Deer, AB, Canada T4P 2Z4 and our telephone number is (403) 827-7936. We are a Colorado corporation. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES WHICH MAY CONTINUE, WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO ACHIEVE OUR BUSINESS OBJECTIVES. We incurred net losses of $34,900 and $10,700 for the years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At June 30, 2008 we had working capital deficit (current assets less currently liabilities) of $9,600 and an accumulated deficit of $46,200. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. There can be no assurance that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to continue expansion of our revenue. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on us. OUR INDEPENDENT AUDITORS HAVE EXPRESSED SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN, WHICH MAY HINDER OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN FUTURE FINANCING. In their report dated, our independent auditors stated that our financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2008 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is an issue raised as a result of recurring losses from operations. We continue to experience net operating losses. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of our securities, increasing sales or obtaining loans and grants from various financial institutions where possible. Our continued net operating losses increase the difficulty in meeting such goals and there can be no assurances that such methods will prove successful. 8 WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY AND IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN CONTINUING TO GROW OUR BUSINESS, THEN WE MAY HAVE TO SCALE BACK OR EVEN CEASE OUR ONGOING BUSINESS OPERATIONS. We have received a limited amount of revenues from operations and have limited assets. We have yet to generate positive earnings and there can be no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. Our company has a limited operating history and must be considered in the development stage. Our success is significantly dependent on a successful acquisition, drilling, completion and production program. Our operations will be subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a developing enterprise and the uncertainties arising from the absence of a significant operating history. We may be unable to locate recoverable reserves or operate on a profitable basis. We are in the development stage and potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by enterprises in the development stage. If our business plan is not successful, and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or al l of their investment in our company. WE LACK SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION CAPABILITIES AND DEPEND ON THIRD PARTIES TO MARKET OUR SERVICES. We have minimal personnel dedicated solely to sales and marketing of our services and therefore we must rely primarily upon third party distributors to market and sell our services. These third parties may not be able to market our product successfully or may not devote the time and resources to marketing our services that we require. We also rely upon third party carriers to distribute and deliver our services. As such, our deliveries are to a certain extent out of our control. If we choose to develop our own sales, marketing or distribution capabilities, we will need to build a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities, which will require a substantial amount of management and financial resources that may not be available. If we or a third party are not able to adequately sell and distribute our product, our business will be materially har med. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ESTABLISH SUFFICIENT SALES AND MARKETING CAPABILITIES OR ENTER INTO AND MAINTAIN APPROPRIATE ARRANGEMENTS WITH THIRD PARTIES TO SELL, MARKET AND DISTRIBUTE OUR SERVICES, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED. We have limited experience as a company in the sale, marketing and distribution of our products and services. We depend upon third parties to sell our product both in the United States and internationally. To achieve commercial success, we must develop sales and marketing capabilities and enter into and maintain successful arrangements with others to sell, market and distribute our products. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. If our current or future partners do not perform adequately, or we are unable to locate or retain partners, as needed, in particular geographic areas or in particular markets, our ability to achieve our expected revenue growth rate will be harmed. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE AFFECTED BY FACTORS OUTSIDE OF OUR CONTROL. Our ability to increase sales, and to profitably distribute and sell our products and services, is subject to a number of risks, including changes in our business relationships with our principal distributors, competitive risks such as the entrance of additional competitors into our markets, pricing and technological competition, risks associated with the development and marketing of new products and services in order to remain competitive and risks associated with changing economic conditions and government regulation. 9 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN THE SERVICES OF MR. SCHLOSSER AND/OR MS. SQUIRE OR IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY RECRUIT QUALIFIED PERSONNEL HAVING EXPERIENCE IN THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE OUR OPERATIONS. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of Mr. Kyle Schlosser, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Ms. Leigh-Ann Squire, our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer. Loss of the services of Mr. Schlosser and/or Ms. Squire could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenues, and prospective business. In order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we will be dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified personnel having experience in the oil and gas business. Competition for qualified individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find, attract and retain existing employees or that we will be able to find, attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. THE POTENTIAL PROFITABILITY OF OIL AND GAS VENTURES DEPENDS UPON FACTORS BEYOND THE CONTROL OF OUR COMPANY. The potential profitability of oil and gas properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. For instance, world prices and markets for oil and gas are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to governmental fixing, pegging, controls, or any combination of these and other factors, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social, and economic environments. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for production and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events may materially affect our financial performance. 