Item 1A. Risk Factors The Notes involve a high degree of risk. In deciding whether to purchase Notes, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Notes you purchase and could cause you to lose all or part of your initial purchase price or future principal and interest payments you expect to receive. 29 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO THE NOTES AND THE CORRESPONDING MEMBER LOANS ON WHICH THE NOTES ARE DEPENDENT You may lose some or all of your initial purchase price for the Notes because the Notes are highly risky and speculative. Only investors who can bear the loss of their entire purchase price should purchase the Notes. The Notes are highly risky and speculative because payments on the Notes depend entirely on payments to LendingClub of unsecured consumer finance obligations of individual borrowers and contemporaneous payments on the Notes, which are special, limited obligations of LendingClub. Notes are suitable purchases only for investors of adequate financial means. If you cannot afford to lose all of the money you plan to invest in Notes, you should not purchase Notes. You should not assume that a Note is appropriate for you as an investment vehicle just because it corresponds to a loan listed on the LendingClub platform or is included in a portfolio built based upon your investment criteria through our portfolio building tool, LendingMatch. Payments on each Note depend entirely on the payments, if any, we receive on the corresponding member loan related to that Note. If a borrower member fails to make any payments on the corresponding member loan related to your Note, you will not receive any payments on your Note. We will make payments pro rata on a series of Notes, net of our service charge, only if we receive the borrower member’s payments on the corresponding member loan and such payments clear and therefore become available for distribution to investors. We will not pay to investors any unsuccessful payment fees, check processing fees, collection fees we or our third-party collection agency charge or payments due to LendingClub on account of portions of the corresponding member loan, if any, funded by LendingClub itself. If we do not receive payments on the corresponding member loan related to your Note, you will not be entitled to any payments under the terms of the Notes, and you will not receive any payments. The failure of a borrower member to repay a loan is not an event of default under the terms of the Notes. The Notes are special, limited obligations of LendingClub only and are not secured by any collateral or guaranteed or insured by any third party. The Notes will not represent an obligation of borrower members or any other party except LendingClub, and are special, limited obligations of LendingClub. The Notes are not secured by any collateral and are not guaranteed or insured by any governmental agency or instrumentality or any third party in any way. Member loans are unsecured obligations and are not backed by any collateral or guaranteed or insured by any third party, and you must rely on LendingClub and our designated third-party collection agency to pursue collection against any borrower member. Member loans are unsecured obligations of borrower members. They are not secured by any collateral, not guaranteed or insured by any third party and not backed by any governmental authority in any way. LendingClub and its designated third-party collection agency will, therefore, be limited in their ability to collect member loans. Moreover, unsecured member loans are obligations of borrower members to LendingClub as assignee of the Note from WebBank, not obligations to holders of Notes. Holders of Notes will have no recourse against borrower members and no ability to pursue borrower members to collect payments under member loans. Holders of Notes may look only to LendingClub for payment of the Notes, and LendingClub’s obligation to pay the Notes is limited as described in this document. Furthermore, if a borrower member fails to make any payments on the member loan corresponding to a Note, the holder of that Note will not receive any payments on that Note. The holder of that Note will not be able to obtain the identity of the borrower member in order to contact the borrower member about the defaulted member loan. In addition, in the unlikely event that we receive payments on the corresponding member loan relating to the Notes after the final maturity date, you will not receive payments on the Notes after final maturity. Peer-to-peer lending is a new lending method and our platform has a limited operating history. Borrowers may not view or treat their obligations to us as having the same significance as loans from traditional lending sources, such as bank loans and borrower loans may have a higher risk of default than loans of borrowers with similar credit scores to other lenders. The investment return on the Notes depends on borrowers fulfilling their payment obligations in a timely and complete manner under the corresponding member loan. Borrowers may not view peer-to-peer lending obligations originated on our platform as having the same significance as other credit obligations arising under more traditional circumstances, such as loans from banks or other commercial financial institutions. If a borrower neglects his or her payment obligations on a member loan upon which payment of the corresponding Note is dependent or chooses not to repay his or her borrower loan entirely, you may not be able to recover any portion of your investment in a Note. 30 Table of Contents The initial maturity date and final maturity date for five year term loans is the same date. As such, you will not receive any payments we may receive after the maturity date. The initial maturity date of all five year term loans will not be extend to a later date, so the initial maturity date of a five year term member loan will equal its initial maturity date. Unlike the three year term loans where the initial maturity date may be extended, the maturity date of the five year term loans will not be extended because if the maturity date were extended beyond five years a portion of the interest paid would likely not be deductible by LendingClub. As a result, if we receive any principal and interest payments from a borrower after the maturity date of a five year term loan, we may retain 100% of these payments and are not obligated to distribute those payments to you. Given the fact that Lending Club is not obligated to deliver any funds received by it after the final maturity date of a Note and is responsible for collection efforts, a conflict of interest could exist as any delay in receiving borrower funds would result in additional money coming to Lending Club. There is, however, a significant mitigating factor to this potential of this conflict. Without diligent collection efforts and success, fewer potential lenders will have the confidence to participate on the site, limiting Lending Club’s growth and long term profitability. Borrower member credit information may be inaccurate or may not accurately reflect the borrower member’s creditworthiness, which may cause you to lose part or all of the purchase price you pay for a Note. LendingClub obtains borrower member credit information from consumer reporting agencies, such as TransUnion, Experian or Equifax, and assigns one of 35 LendingClub loan grades to loan requests, from A1 through G5, based on the reported credit score, other information reported by the consumer reporting agencies and the requested loan amount. A credit score or loan grade assigned to a borrower member may not reflect that borrower member’s actual creditworthiness because the credit score may be based on outdated, incomplete or inaccurate consumer reporting data, and LendingClub does not verify the information obtained from the borrower member’s credit report. Additionally, there is a risk that, following the date of the credit report that LendingClub obtains and reviews, a borrower member may have: • become delinquent in the payment of an outstanding obligation; • defaulted on a pre-existing debt obligation; • taken on additional debt; or • sustained other adverse financial events. Moreover, investors do not, and will not, have access to financial statements of borrower members, or to other detailed financial information about borrower members. Information supplied by borrower members may be inaccurate or intentionally false and should generally not be relied upon. Borrower members supply a variety of information that is included in the borrower member loan listings on our website and in the posting reports and sales reports we file with the SEC. We do not verify this information, and it may be inaccurate or incomplete. For example, we do not verify a borrower member’s stated social affiliations (such as educational affiliations), home ownership status, job title, employer or tenure, and the information borrower members supply may be inaccurate or intentionally false. Borrower members may misrepresent their intentions for the use of loan proceeds which also may result in us not obtaining certain fees from borrower members. Unless we have specifically indicated otherwise in a loan listing, we do not verify a borrower member’s stated income. For example, we do not verify borrower member paystubs, IRS Forms W-2, federal or state income tax returns, bank and savings account balances, retirement account balances, letters from employers, home ownership or rental records, car ownership records or any records related to past bankruptcy and legal proceedings. In the limited cases in which we have selected borrower members for income or employment verification, for the year ended March 31, 2010, approximately 64.1% of requested borrower members provided us with satisfactory responses to verify their income or employment; approximately 11.0% of requested borrower members withdrew their applications for loans, and approximately 24.9% of requested borrower members either failed to respond to our request in full or provided information that failed to verify their stated information, and we therefore removed those borrower members’ loan postings. The identity of borrower members is not revealed to investors, and investors also have no ability to obtain or verify borrower member information either before or after they purchase a Note. Potential investors may only communicate with borrower members through LendingClub website postings, and then only on an anonymous basis. While we may monitor website posting for appropriate content, we do not verify any information in the postings nor do we respond to requests from investor or borrower members in any posting and any response to the contrary should not be seen as accurate. 31 Table of Contents If you rely on false, misleading or unverified information supplied by borrower members in deciding to purchase Notes, you may lose part or all of the purchase price you pay for a Note. Loan posting and borrower member information available on the LendingClub website will be statements made in connection with the purchase and sale of securities, and therefore subject to Rule 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Loan posting and borrower member information filed in prospectus supplements will be subject to the liability provisions of the Securities Act. In this document, we advise potential investors as to the limitations on the reliability of this information, and an investor’s recourse in the event this information is false will be extremely limited. Consequently, investors should rely on loan grade, which we determine based on third-party credit report information, and the size of the loan request, and should not rely on unverified information provided by borrower members. While we take precautions to prevent borrower member identity fraud, it is possible that identity fraud may still occur and adversely affect your ability to receive the principal and interest payments that you expect to receive on those Notes. We use identity checks with a third-party provider to verify each borrower member’s identity and credit history. Notwithstanding our efforts, there is a risk that identity fraud may occur and remain undetected by us. While we will repurchase Notes in limited identity fraud circumstances involving the corresponding member loan, we are not otherwise obligated to repurchase a Note from you for any other reason. As of March 31, 2010, we had repurchased Notes relating to nineteen corresponding member loans in which identity fraud occurred. If LendingClub repurchases a Note based on identity fraud involving the corresponding member loan, you will only receive an amount equal to the outstanding principal balance of the Note. Lending Club has the exclusive right to investigate claims of identity theft and determine, in its sole discretion, whether verifiable identity theft has occurred. As Lending Club is the sole entity with the ability to investigate and determine verifiable identity theft, which triggers its repurchase obligation, a conflict of interest exists as the denial of a claim under Lending Club’s identity theft guarantee would save Lending Club from its repurchase obligation. There are, however, three factors that mitigate the risk of this conflict. Without the protection offered by this guarantee, fewer potential lenders will have the confidence to participate on the site, limiting Lending Club’s growth and long term profitability. In addition, Lending Club’s relationship with WebBank includes a requirement — and accompanying audit function — to insure that claims of identity theft are thoroughly investigated and accurately reported. Finally, California statutes include severe penalties owed to the victim of identity theft if it is shown that a claim of identity theft was not adequately investigated or frivolously dismissed. In the event we breach any of our other representations and warranties in the lender registration agreement pertaining to the Notes. We do not have significant historical performance data about borrower member performance on LendingClub member loans. Default rates on the member loans may increase. We are in the early stages of our development and have a limited operating history. We began operations as an application on Facebook.com in May 2007. In September 2007, we expanded our operations and launched our public website, www.lendingclub.com. Due to our limited operational history, we do not have significant historical performance data regarding borrower member performance on the member loans, and we do not yet know what the long-term loan loss experience will be. The estimated default rates we use in calculating interest rates have not been developed from LendingClub loss histories. Member loans originated through the LendingClub platform may default more often than these estimated default rates. In addition, as we do not have experience in making five-year unsecured consumer loans, the default rates on these loan types is uncertain and may exceed our current expectations. As actual loan loss experience increases on the LendingClub platform, we may change how interest rates are set, and investors who have purchased Notes prior to any such changes will not benefit from these changes. Default rates on the member loans may increase as a result of economic conditions beyond our control and beyond the control of borrower members. Member loan default rates may be significantly affected by economic downturns or general economic conditions beyond our control and beyond the control of individual borrower members. In particular, default rates on member loans on which the Notes are dependent may increase due to factors such as prevailing interest rates, the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence, residential real estate values, the value of the U.S. dollar, energy prices, changes in consumer spending, the number of personal bankruptcies, disruptions in the credit markets and other factors. The current, continued, significant downturn in the United States economy has caused default rates on consumer loans to increase, and the downturn will likely result in increased member loan default rates. 32 Table of Contents If payments on the corresponding member loans relating to the Notes become more than 30 days overdue, it is likely you will not receive the full principal and interest payments that you expect to receive on the Notes due to collection fees and other costs, and you may not recover any of your original purchase price. If the borrower member fails to make a required payment on a member loan within 30 days of the due date, LendingClub will pursue reasonable collection efforts in respect of the member loan. Referral of a delinquent member loan to a collection agency on the 31st day of its delinquency will be considered reasonable collection efforts. If we refer a loan to a collection agency, we will have no other obligation to attempt to collect on delinquent loans. LendingClub may also handle collection efforts in respect of a delinquent member loan directly. If payment amounts on a delinquent member loan are received from a borrower member more than 30 days after their due date, then we, or, if we have referred the delinquent loan to an outside collection agency, that collection agency, will retain a percentage of any funds recovered from such borrower member as a service fee before any principal or interest becomes payable to you from recovered amounts in respect of Notes related to the corresponding member loan. Collection fees range from 30% to 35% of recovered amounts. LendingClub or the collection agency may not be able to recover some or all of the unpaid balance of a non-performing member loan. You must rely on the collection efforts of LendingClub and the designated collection agency, and you are not permitted to attempt to collect payments on the member loans in any manner. If you decide to invest through the platform and concentrate your investment in a single Note, your entire return will depend on the performance of a single member loan. Member loans originated through the LendingClub platform have a wide range of credit grades, and we expect that some borrower members will default on their member loans. If you decide to invest through the platform and concentrate your investment in a single Note, your entire return will depend on the performance of a single member loan. For example, if you plan to purchase $100 of Notes, and choose to invest the entire $100 in a single Note instead of in four $25 Notes corresponding to the member loans of four different borrowers, your entire $100 investment will depend on the performance of a single member loan. Failing to diversify your investment increases the risk of losing your entire investment due to a single borrower member’s default, or a small number of borrower member defaults. Diversification, however, will not eliminate the risk that you may lose some, or all, of the expected principal and interest payments on the Notes. In the unlikely event that we receive payments on the corresponding member loans relating to the Notes after the final maturity date, you will not receive payments on the Notes after final maturity. Each Note will mature on its initial maturity date of either three or five years from its issuance date. Where any principal or interest payments in respect of a three-year term loan remains due and payable to LendingClub upon the initial maturity date, the maturity of the corresponding Note will be automatically extended to its final maturity date. The final maturity date for all Notes will be five years after the issuance of the Note (and two years after the initial maturity date of a corresponding three-year member loan). In the unlikely event there are any amounts under the corresponding member loan still due and owing to LendingClub after the final maturity, LendingClub will have no further obligation to make payments on the Notes of the series even if LendingClub receives payments on the corresponding member loan after the final maturity. Given the fact that Lending Club is not obligated to deliver any funds received by it after the final maturity date of a Note and is responsible for collection efforts, a conflict of interest could exist as any delay in receiving borrower funds would result in additional money coming to Lending Club. There is, however, a significant mitigating factor to this potential of this conflict. Without diligent collection efforts and success, fewer potential lenders will have the confidence to participate on the site, limiting Lending Club’s growth and long term profitability. The member loans on which the Notes are dependent do not restrict borrower members from incurring additional unsecured or secured debt, nor do they impose any financial restrictions on borrower members during the term of the member loan, which may impair your ability to receive the full principal and interest payments that you expect to receive on a Note. All member loans are credit obligations of individual borrower members. If a borrower member incurs additional debt after obtaining a member loan through the LendingClub platform, the additional debt may impair the ability of that borrower member to make payments on the borrower’s member loan and your ability to receive the principal and interest payments that you expect to receive on Notes dependent on those loans. In addition, the additional debt may adversely affect the borrower member’s creditworthiness generally, and could result in the financial distress, insolvency, or bankruptcy of the borrower member. To the extent that the borrower member has or incurs other indebtedness and cannot pay all of its indebtedness, the borrower member may choose to make payments to creditors other than LendingClub. 33 Table of Contents As to these member loans, to the extent borrower members incur other indebtedness that is secured, such as mortgage, home equity or auto loans, the ability of the secured creditors to exercise remedies against the assets of the borrower member may impair the borrower member’s ability to repay the unsecured member loan on which your Note is dependent. Since the member loans are unsecured, borrower members may choose to repay obligations under other indebtedness before repaying member loans originated through the LendingClub platform because the borrower members have no collateral at risk. An investor will not be made aware of any additional debt incurred by a borrower member, or whether such debt is secured. Member loans do not contain any cross-default or similar provisions. If borrower members default on their debt obligations other than the member loans, the ability to collect on member loans on which the Notes are dependent may be substantially impaired. The member loans do not contain cross-default provisions. A cross-default provision makes a default under certain debt of a borrower member an automatic default on other debt of that borrower member. Because the member loans do not contain cross-default provisions, a borrower member’s loan will not be placed automatically in default upon that borrower member’s default on any of the borrower member’s other debt obligations, unless there are independent grounds for a default on the member loan. The member loans will not be referred to a third-party collection agency for collection because of a borrower member’s default on debt obligations other than the member loans. If a borrower member defaults on debt obligations owed to a third party and continues to satisfy payment obligations under the member loans, the third party may seize the borrower’s assets, subject to LendingClub’s security interest, or pursue other legal action against the borrower member before the borrower member defaults on the member loans. Payments on Notes may be substantially reduced if the borrower member subsequently defaults on the member loans and you may be unable to recoup any or all of your expected principal and interest payments on those Notes. Borrower members may seek the protection of debtor relief under federal bankruptcy or state insolvency laws, which may result in the nonpayment of the Notes. Borrower members may seek protection under federal bankruptcy law or similar laws. If a borrower member files for bankruptcy (or becomes the subject of an involuntary petition), a stay will go into effect that will automatically put any pending collection actions, on hold and prevent further collection action absent bankruptcy court approval. If we receive notice that a borrower member has filed for protection under the federal bankruptcy laws, or has become the subject of an involuntary bankruptcy petition, we will put the borrower member’s loan account into “bankruptcy status.” When we put a member loan into bankruptcy status, we terminate automatic monthly Automated Clearing House (“ACH”) debits and do not undertake collection activity without bankruptcy court approval. Whether any payment will ultimately be made or received on a member loan after a bankruptcy status is declared, depends on the borrower member’s particular financial situation and the determination of the court. It is possible that the borrower member’s personal liability on the member loan will be discharged in bankruptcy. In most cases involving the bankruptcy of a borrower member with an unsecured loan, unsecured creditors, including LendingClub as holder of the member loans, will receive only a fraction of any amount outstanding on their member loans, if anything. Federal law entitles borrower members who enter active military service to an interest rate cap and certain other rights that may inhibit the ability to collect on loans and reduce the amount of interest paid on the corresponding Notes. Federal law provides borrower members on active military service with rights that may delay or impair our ability to collect on a borrower member loan corresponding to your Note. The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act requires that the interest rate on preexisting debts, such as member loans, be set at no more than 6% while the qualified service member or reservist is on active duty. A holder of a Note that is dependent on such a member loan will not receive the difference between 6% and the original stated interest rate for the member loan during any such period. This law also permits courts to stay proceedings and execution of judgments against service members and reservists on active duty, which may delay recovery on any member loans in default, and, accordingly, payments on Notes that are dependent on these member loans. If there are any amounts under such a member loan still due and owing to LendingClub after the final maturity of the Notes that correspond to the member loan, we will have no further obligation to make payments on the Notes, even if we later receive payments after the final maturity of the Notes. We do not take military service into account in assigning loan grades to borrower member loan requests. The death of a borrower member may substantially impair your ability to recoup the full purchase price of Notes that are dependent on the member loan to that borrower member or to receive the interest payments that you expect to receive on the Notes. All borrower members are individuals. If a borrower member with outstanding obligations under a member loan dies while the member loan is outstanding, we will generally seek to work with the executor of the estate of the borrower member to obtain repayment of the member loan. However, the borrower member’s estate may not contain sufficient assets to repay the member loan on which your Note is dependent. In addition, if a borrower member dies near the end of the term of an unsecured member loan, it is unlikely that any further payments will be made on the Notes corresponding to such member loan, because the time required for the probate of the estate may extend beyond the initial maturity date and the final maturity date of the Notes. 34 Table of Contents The LendingClub platform allows a borrower member to prepay a member loan at any time without penalty. Borrower member loan prepayments will extinguish or limit your ability to receive additional interest payments on a Note. Borrower member loan prepayment occurs when a borrower member decides to pay some or all of the principal amount on a member loan earlier than originally scheduled. A borrower member may decide to prepay all or a portion of the remaining principal amount at any time without penalty. In the event of a prepayment of the entire remaining unpaid principal amount of a member loan on which the Notes are dependent, you will receive your share of such prepayment, net of our 1.00% service fee, but further interest will not accrue after the date on which the payment is made. If a borrower member prepays a portion of the remaining unpaid principal balance on a member loan on which the Notes are dependent, we will reduce the outstanding principle amount and interest will cease to accrue on the prepaid portion. The combination of the reduced principal amount and the unchanged monthly payment, the effective term of the member loan will decline. If a borrower member prepays a member loan in full or in part, you will not receive all of the interest payments that you originally expected to receive on Notes that are dependent on that member loan, and you may not be able to find a similar rate of return on another investment at the time at which the member loan is prepaid. Prepayments are subject to our 1.00% service charge, even if the prepayment occurs immediately after issuance of your Note. The return on the Note may actually be negative if prepayment occurs within the first few months after issuance. Prevailing interest rates may change during the term of the member loan on which your Note is dependent. If this occurs, you may receive less value from your purchase of the Note in comparison to other investment opportunities. Additionally, borrower members may prepay their member loans due to changes in interest rates, and you may not be able to redeploy the amounts you receive from prepayments in a way that offers you the return you expected to receive from the Notes. The member loans on which the Notes are dependent have a term of three or five years and bear fixed, not floating, rates of interest. If prevailing interest rates increase, the interest rates on Notes you purchase might be less than the rate of return you could earn if you invested your purchase price in other investments. While you may still receive a return on your purchase price for the Notes through the receipt of amounts equal to the interest portion of a borrower member’s payments on the member loan, if prevailing interest rates exceed the rate of interest payable on the member loan, the payments you receive during the term of the Note may not reflect the full opportunity cost to you when you take into account factors such as the time value of money. There is no prepayment penalty for borrower members who prepay their member loans. If prevailing interest rates on consumer loans decrease, borrower members may choose to prepay their member loans with money they borrow from other sources or other resources, and you may not receive the interest payments on Notes dependent on those member loans that you expect to receive or be able to find an alternative use of your money to realize a similar rate of return at the time at which the Note is prepaid. Investor funds in a LendingClub investor account do not earn interest. Your LendingClub investor account represents an interest in a pooled demand deposit account maintained by LendingClub “in trust for” investors (“ITF account”) that does not earn interest. Investor funds committed to purchase Notes represent binding commitments, and such committed funds may not be withdrawn from member accounts (unless and until corresponding member loans included in the order are not funded, in which case the corresponding funds become available to the investor again). Funds committed to purchase Notes will not earn interest in the ITF account, and interest will not begin to accrue on a Note until the corresponding member loan has closed and the Note is issued. The Notes will not be listed on any securities exchange, will not be transferable except through the Note Trading Platform by FOLIOfn, and must be held only by LendingClub investors. You should be prepared to hold the Notes you purchase until they mature. The Notes will not be listed on any securities exchange. All Notes must be held by LendingClub members. The Notes will not be transferable except through the Note Trading Platform by FOLIOfn Investments, Inc. (“FOLIOfn”), a registered broker-dealer. The trading platform is not available to residents of all states. There can be no assurance that an active market for Notes will develop on the trading platform, that there will be a buyer for any particular Notes listed for resale on the trading platform or that the trading platform will continue to operate. Therefore, investors must be prepared to hold their Notes to maturity. 35 Table of Contents The U.S. federal income tax consequences of an investment in the Notes are uncertain. No authority directly addresses the treatment of the Notes or instruments similar to the Notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although the matter is not free from doubt, LendingClub intends to treat the Notes as indebtedness of LendingClub for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result of such treatment, the Notes will have original issue discount, or OID, for U.S. federal income tax purposes because payments on the Notes are dependent on payments on the corresponding member loan. Further, a holder of a Note will be required to include the OID in income as ordinary interest income for U.S. federal income tax purposes as it accrues (which may be in advance of interest being paid on the Note), regardless of such holder’s regular method of accounting. This characterization is not binding on the IRS, and the IRS may take contrary positions. Any differing treatment of the Notes could significantly affect the amount, timing and character of income, gain or loss in respect of an investment in the Notes. Accordingly, all prospective purchasers of the Notes are advised to consult their own tax advisors regarding the U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax consequences of the purchase and ownership of the Notes (including any possible differing treatments of the Notes). For a discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of an investment in the Notes. RISKS RELATED TO LENDINGCLUB AND THE LENDINGCLUB PLATFORM We have a limited operating history. As an online company in the early stages of development, we face increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. To be successful, the number of borrower members and LendingClub investors and the volume of member loans originated through the LendingClub platform will need to increase, which will require us to increase our facilities, personnel and infrastructure to accommodate the greater servicing obligations and demands on the LendingClub platform. The LendingClub platform is dependent upon our website to maintain current listings and transactions in the member loans and Notes. We must constantly add new hardware and update our software and website, expand our customer support services and retain an appropriate number of employees to maintain the operations of the LendingClub platform, as well as to satisfy our servicing obligations on the member loans and make payments on the Notes. If we are unable to increase the capacity of the LendingClub platform and maintain the necessary infrastructure, you may experience delays in receipt of payments on the Notes and periodic downtime of our systems. If we are unable to increase transaction volumes, our business and results of operations will be affected adversely. To succeed, we must increase transaction volumes on the LendingClub platform by attracting a large number of borrower members and investors in a cost-effective manner, many of whom have not previously participated in an online financial community. We have experienced a high number of inquiries from potential borrower members who do not meet our criteria for submitting a member loan request. We have also experienced from time to time borrower member loan requests for amounts that exceed the aggregate amount of investor purchase commitments. From time to time, we have relied on our credit facilities with third parties to borrow funds which we used to fund member loans on the platform ourselves to partially address the shortfall between borrower member loan requests and investor purchase commitments. We have fully drawn down these existing facilities. All member loans are obligations of borrower members to LendingClub, and we issue Notes to investors who fund a corresponding member loan, or portion of the member loan, originated through our platform. When we fund member loans ourselves on the platform, we continue to directly hold the member loan, or portion of the member loan, we have funded and do not issue Notes corresponding to such member loans for our own account. We expect these shortfalls to continue for the foreseeable future, and our ability to obtain funds to help address this shortfall may be subject to broader developments in the credit markets, which have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. If we are not able to attract qualified borrower members and sufficient investor purchase commitments, we will not be able to increase our transaction volumes. Additionally, we rely on a variety of methods to drive traffic to our website. If we are unable to use any of our current or future marketing initiatives or the cost of these initiatives were to significantly increase, we may not be able to attract new members in a cost-effective manner and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be affected adversely, which may impair our ability to maintain the LendingClub platform. We may need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations, and if we fail to obtain additional funding, we may be unable to continue operations. At this early stage in our development, we have funded substantially all of our operations with proceeds from venture capital financings, private placements and bank financings. To continue the development of the LendingClub platform, we will require substantial additional funds. For example, our cash outflow to fund operations for year ended March 31, 2010, was approximately $8.1 million. 36 Table of Contents To strengthen our financial position, during the year ended March 31, 2009, we raised $5,386,893, net of issuance costs, from the sale of 5,112,672 shares of our Series A convertible preferred stock, $1,054,575 from the conversion of principal and interest on our convertible notes into 990,212 shares of our Series A convertible preferred stock, and $11,897,738, net of issuance costs, from the sale of 16,036,346 shares of our Series B convertible preferred stock. During the year ended March 31, 2009, we also raised $7,107,964 through the issuance of notes payable in connection with our growth capital term loan, financing term loan and private placement notes. During year ended March 31, 2010, we raised $4,200,000 through the issuance of notes payable in connection with our May 2009 term loan and our private placement notes. On April 14, 2010, we raised $24,387,945, net of estimated issuance costs, from the sale of 15,621,609 shares of our Series C convertible Preferred Stock. To meet our financing requirements in the future, we may raise funds through equity offerings, debt financings or strategic alliances. Raising additional funds may involve agreements or covenants that restrict our business activities and options. Additional funding may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may be forced to reduce or terminate our operations. The market in which we participate is competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The consumer lending market is competitive and rapidly changing. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase volume on the LendingClub platform. Our principal competitors include major banking institutions, credit unions, credit card issuers and other consumer finance companies, as well as other social lending platforms. Competition could result in reduced volumes, reduced fees or the failure of our social lending platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. In addition, in the future we may experience new competition from more established internet companies, such as eBay Inc., Google Inc. and Yahoo! Inc., possessing large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels. If any of these companies or any major financial institution decided to enter the social lending business, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our operating results could be harmed. Most of our current or potential competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their platforms and distribution channels. Our potential competitors may also have longer operating histories, more extensive customer bases, greater brand recognition and broader customer relationships than we have. These competitors may be better able to develop new products, to respond quickly to new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. Our industry is driven by constant innovation. If we are unable to compete with such companies and meet the need for innovation, the demand for our platform could stagnate or substantially decline. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand in a cost-effective manner, we may lose market share and our revenue may decrease. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the LendingClub brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our online financial community and attracting new members. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and the member experience on the LendingClub platform. Historically, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expense, and it is likely that our future marketing efforts will require us to incur significant additional expenses. These brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues and, even if they do, any revenue increases may not offset the expenses we incur to promote our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may lose our existing members to our competitors or be unable to attract new members, which would cause our revenue to decrease and may impair our ability to maintain the LendingClub platform. We have incurred net losses in the past and expect to incur net losses in the future. If we become insolvent or bankrupt, you may lose your investment. We have incurred net losses in the past and we expect to incur net losses in the future. As of March 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $30.2 million and our total stockholders’ deficit was $26.3 million. Our net loss for the year ended March 31, 2010, was $10.3 million. We have not been profitable since our inception, and we may not become profitable. In addition, we expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. If our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance could be adversely affected. If our revenue does not grow to offset these increased expenses, we may never become profitable. In future periods, we may not have any revenue growth, or our revenue could decline. Our failure to become profitable could impair the operations of our platform by limiting our access to working capital to operate the platform. If we were to become insolvent or bankrupt, an event of default would occur under the terms of the Notes, and you may lose your investment. 37 Table of Contents Our substantial senior secured indebtedness could adversely affect our financial performance, ability to finance future operations, and our special, limited obligations in respect of the Notes. We have incurred substantial senior secured indebtedness under bank credit facilities with SVB and Gold Hill and other notes issued to other investors. The operating and financial restrictions in these debt agreements, as well as the required debt service and repayment obligations in these debt agreements, could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, our ability to borrow additional funds or otherwise finance our future operations will be limited by the existence and terms of the debt agreements. If we are unable to repay our obligations other than the Notes and otherwise finance our future operations, such inability will have an adverse impact on our ability to operate our platform and service the Notes, which could adversely affect the payments you receive on the Notes. Our credit agreements contain restrictive covenants and other limitations that, if not complied with, could result in a default under the credit agreements and an acceleration of our obligations under the credit agreements. We are not certain whether we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make such accelerated payments, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to operate our platform and service the Notes, which could adversely affect the payments you receive on the Notes. We have secured our debt facilities by pledging significant assets to SVB, Gold Hill, Wells Fargo and our other investors and we are not prohibited from incurring additional debt in the Indenture or otherwise. To induce our lenders to enter into credit agreements or other agreements with us, we have pledged certain of assets to our lenders to secure our repayment obligations under these credit agreements or other agreements, except that we have not pledged our intellectual property rights, the ITF account, the corresponding member loan promissory notes (except in specific circumstances) or payments we receive in respect of corresponding member loans (except in specific circumstances). If we are unable to repay any amounts owed under these credit agreements or other agreements, we could lose these pledged assets and be forced to discontinue our business operations. In addition, because these obligations are secured, collectively, with a first priority lien against such assets, we may have difficulty obtaining additional debt financing from another lender or obtaining new debt financing on terms favorable to us, because a new lender may have to be willing to be subordinate to our existing secured creditors. The Notes rank effectively junior to the rights of the holders of our existing or future secured indebtedness to the extent of the collateral for that secured indebtedness. Neither the Notes nor our debt agreements limit or prevent our incurring future indebtedness, whether unsecured or secured by all or a portion of our assets. Our arrangements for backup servicing are limited. If we fail to maintain operations, you will experience a delay and increased cost in respect of your expected principal and interest payments on the Notes, and we may be unable to collect and process repayments from borrower members. We have made arrangements for only limited backup servicing. If our platform were to fail or we became insolvent, we would attempt to transfer our member loan servicing obligations to our third party back-up servicer. There can be no assurance that this back-up servicer will be able to adequately perform the servicing of the outstanding member loans. If this back-up servicer assumes the servicing of the member loans, the back-up servicer will impose additional servicing fees, reducing the amounts available for payments on the Notes. Additionally, transferring these servicing obligations to our back-up servicer may result in delays in the processing and recovery of information with respect to amounts owed on the member loans or, if the LendingClub platform becomes inoperable, may prevent us from servicing the member loans and making principal and interest payments on the Notes. If our back-up servicer is not able to service the member loans effectively, investors’ ability to receive principal and interest payments on their Notes may be substantially impaired. If we were to become subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, the rights of the holders of the Notes could be uncertain, and payments on the Notes may be limited and suspended or stopped. The Notes are unsecured and holders of the Notes do not have a security interest in the corresponding member loans or the proceeds of those corresponding member loans. The recovery, if any, of a holder on a Note may be substantially delayed and substantially less than the principal and interest due and to become due on the Note. Even funds held by LendingClub in trust for the holders of Notes may potentially be at risk. 38 Table of Contents If LendingClub were to become subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, the recovery, if any, of a holder of a Note may be substantially delayed in time and may be substantially less in amount than the principal and interest due and to become due on the Note. Specifically, the following consequences may occur: A bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub may cause delays in borrower member payments. Borrower members may delay payments to LendingClub on account of member loans because of the uncertainties occasioned by a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, even if the borrower members have no legal right to do so, and such delay would reduce, at least for a time, the funds that might otherwise be available to pay the Notes corresponding to those member loans. A bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub may cause delays in payments on Notes. The commencement of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding may, as a matter of law, prevent LendingClub from making regular payments on the Notes, even if the funds to make such payments are available. Because a bankruptcy or similar proceeding may take months or years to complete, the suspension of payment may effectively reduce the value of any recovery that a holder of a Note may receive (and no such recovery can be assured) by the time any recovery is available. Interest accruing upon and following a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub may not be paid. In bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, interest accruing on the Notes during the proceeding may not be part of the allowed claim of a holder of a Note. If the holder of a Note receives a recovery on the Note (and no such recovery can be assured), any such recovery may be based on, and limited to, the claim of the holder of the Note for principal and for interest accrued up to the date of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding, but not thereafter. Because a bankruptcy or similar proceeding may take months or years to complete, a claim based on principal and on interest only up to the start of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding may be substantially less than a claim based on principal and on interest through the end of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, there may be uncertainty regarding whether a holder of a Note has any priority right to payment from the corresponding member loan. The Notes are unsecured and holders of the Notes do not have a security interest in the corresponding member loans or the proceeds of those corresponding member loans. Accordingly, the holder of a Note may be required to share the proceeds of the corresponding member loan with any other creditor of LendingClub that has rights in those proceeds. If such sharing of proceeds is deemed appropriate, those proceeds that are either held by LendingClub in the clearing account at the time of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, or not yet received by LendingClub from borrower members at the time of the commencement of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding, may be at greater risk than those proceeds that are already held by LendingClub in the “in trust for,” or ITF, account at the time of the bankruptcy or similar proceeding. To the extent that proceeds of the corresponding member loan would be shared with other creditors of LendingClub, any secured or priority rights of such other creditors may cause the proceeds to be distributed to such other creditors before, or ratably with, any distribution made to you on your Note. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, there may be uncertainty regarding whether a holder of a Note has any right of payment from assets of LendingClub other than the corresponding member loan. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, it is possible that a Note could be deemed to have a right of payment only from proceeds of the corresponding member loan and not from any other assets of LendingClub, in which case the holder of the Note may not be entitled to share the proceeds of such other assets of LendingClub with other creditors of LendingClub, whether or not, as described above, such other creditors would be entitled to share in the proceeds of the member loan corresponding to the Note. Alternatively, it is possible that a Note could be deemed to have a right of payment from both the member loan corresponding to the Note and from some or all other assets of LendingClub, for example, based upon the automatic acceleration of the principal obligations on the Note upon the commencement of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, in which case the holder of the Note may be entitled to share the proceeds of such other assets of LendingClub with other creditors of LendingClub, whether or not, as described above, such other creditors would be entitled to share in the proceeds of the member loan corresponding to the Note. To the extent that proceeds of such other assets would be shared with other creditors of LendingClub, any secured or priority rights of such other creditors may cause the proceeds to be distributed to such other creditors before, or ratably with, any distribution made to you on your Note. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, there may be uncertainty regarding the rights of a holder of a Note, if any, to payment from funds in the clearing account. If a borrower member has paid LendingClub on a member loan corresponding to a Note before a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub is commenced, and those funds are held in the clearing account and have not been used by LendingClub to make payments on the Note as of the date the bankruptcy or similar proceeding is commenced, there can be no assurance that LendingClub will or will be able to use such funds to make payments on the Note. Other creditors of LendingClub may be deemed to have, or actually have, rights to such funds that are equal to or greater than the rights of the holder of the Note. 39 Table of Contents In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, there may be uncertainty regarding the rights of a holder of a Note, if any, to access funds in the ITF account. If a borrower has paid LendingClub on a member loan corresponding to a Note before a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub is commenced, and those funds have been used by LendingClub to make payments on the Note prior to the date the bankruptcy or similar proceeding is commenced, but the payments on the Note continue to be held by LendingClub in an ITF account, there can be no assurance that the holder of the Note will have immediate access to the funds constituting the payment or that the funds constituting the payment will ultimately be released to the holder of the Note. While the Trust Agreement states that funds in the ITF account are trust property and are not intended to be property of LendingClub or subject to claims of LendingClub’s creditors generally, there can be no assurance that, if the matter were to be litigated, such litigation would not delay or prevent the holder of a Note from accessing the portion of those funds in which the holder has an interest. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, there may be uncertainty regarding the rights of a holder of a Note, if any, to the return of the purchase price of a Note if the corresponding member loan has not been funded. If the purchase price of a Note is paid to LendingClub and a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub is commenced, the holder of the Note may not be able to obtain a return of the funds constituting the purchase price, even if the member loan corresponding to the Note has not been funded as of the date that the bankruptcy or similar proceeding is commenced and even if the funds are held by LendingClub in the ITF account. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, the holder of a Note may be delayed or prevented from enforcing LendingClub’s repurchase obligations in cases of confirmed identity fraud. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, any right of a holder of Note to require LendingClub to repurchase the Note as a result of a confirmed identity fraud incident may not be specifically enforced, and such holder’s claim for such repurchase may be treated less favorably than a general unsecured obligation of LendingClub as described and subject to the limitations in this “Risks Related to LendingClub and the LendingClub Platform — If we were to become subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding” section. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, the implementation of back-up servicing arrangements may be delayed or prevented. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding of LendingClub, our ability to transfer servicing obligations to our back-up servicer may be limited and subject to the approval of the bankruptcy court or other presiding authority. The bankruptcy process may delay or prevent the implementation of back-up servicing, which may impair the collection of member loans to the detriment of the Notes. We rely on third-party banks to disburse member loan proceeds and process member loan payments, and we rely on third-party computer hardware and software. If we are unable to continue utilizing these services, our business and ability to service the member loans on which the Notes are dependent may be adversely affected. We rely on a third-party bank to disburse member loan amounts. Additionally, because we are not a bank, we cannot belong to and directly access the ACH payment network, and we must rely on an FDIC-insured depository institution to process our transactions, including loan payments and remittances to holders of the Notes. We currently use Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. for these purposes. Under the ACH rules, if we experience a high rate of reversed transactions (known as “chargebacks”), we may be subject to sanctions and potentially disqualified from using the system to process payments. We also rely on computer hardware purchased and software licensed from third parties to operate our platform, including payment processing software licensed from BankServ. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot continue to obtain these services, or if we cannot transition to another service provider quickly, our ability to process payments and operate the LendingClub platform could suffer, and your receipt of payments on the Notes could be delayed or impaired. If the security of our members’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, your secure information may be stolen, our reputation may be harmed, and we may be exposed to liability. Our platform stores our borrower members’ and investors’ bank information and other personally-identifiable sensitive data. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could cause your secure information to be stolen and used for criminal purposes. Security breaches or unauthorized access to secure information could also expose us to liability related to the loss of the information, time-consuming and expensive litigation and negative publicity. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party or disaffected employee obtains unauthorized access to any of our members’ data, our relationships with our members will be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach are costly to implement and often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our members to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, and we could lose members. 40 Table of Contents Our ability to service the member loans or maintain accurate accounts may be adversely affected by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. The highly-automated nature of the LendingClub platform may make it an attractive target and potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. If a computer hacker were able to infiltrate the LendingClub platform, you would be subject to an increased risk of fraud or borrower identity theft, and you may not receive the principal or interest payments that you expect to receive on any Notes you were fraudulently induced to purchase. Hackers might also disrupt the accurate processing and posting of payments to accounts such as yours on the platform, or cause the destruction of data and thereby undermine your rights to repayment of the Notes you have purchased. While we have taken steps to prevent hackers from accessing the LendingClub platform, if we are unable to prevent hacker access, your ability to receive the principal and interest payments that you expect to receive on Notes you purchase and our ability to fulfill our servicing obligations and to maintain the LendingClub platform would be adversely affected. Any significant disruption in service on our website or in our computer systems could reduce the attractiveness of our platform and result in a loss of members. If a catastrophic event resulted in a platform outage and physical data loss, our ability to perform our servicing obligations would be materially and adversely affected. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology and our underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of customer service, reputation and ability to attract new members and retain existing members. Our system hardware is hosted in a hosting facility located in Santa Clara, CA, owned and operated by SAVVIS. We also maintain a real time backup system located in Washington, D.C. SAVVIS does not guarantee that our members’ access to our website will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on SAVVIS’s ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, air quality, temperature, humidity and other environmental concerns, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. If our arrangement with SAVVIS, which is currently month-to-month with a brief termination window, is terminated, or there is a lapse of service or damage to SAVVIS facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of SAVVIS or other third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with our members and our reputation. Additionally, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. Our disaster recovery plan has not been tested under actual disaster conditions, and we may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage at a SAVVIS facility. These factors could prevent us from processing or posting payments on the member loans or the Notes, damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees’ attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause members to abandon the LendingClub platform, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees whom we need to support our business. Competition for highly skilled technical and financial personnel is extremely intense. We may not be able to hire and retain these personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring and training their replacements and the quality of our services and our ability to serve LendingClub members could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. Our growth could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Our growth in headcount and operations since our inception has placed, and will continue to place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial reporting infrastructure. 41 Table of Contents Our success will depend in part on the ability of our senior management to manage the growth we achieve effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. If our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and update our reporting procedures and systems. The addition of new employees and the system development that we anticipate will be necessary to manage our growth will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we will be unable to execute our business plan. If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, Renaud Laplanche, our Founder and Chief Executive Officer, and John G. Donovan, our Chief Operating Officer, are critical to the management of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction. The loss of the services of Mr. Laplanche, Mr. Donovan or other executive officers or key personnel and the process to replace any of our key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. It may be difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our ability to maintain the LendingClub platform and arrange member loans depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology, including our proprietary portfolio tool builder system, LendingMatch. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology effectively, however, which would allow competitors to duplicate our products and adversely affect our ability to compete with them. A third party may attempt to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without our consent. In addition, the LendingClub platform may infringe upon claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from such other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. Furthermore, our technology may become obsolete, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully develop, obtain or use new technologies to adapt the LendingClub platform to compete with other person-to-person lending platforms as they develop. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology from intellectual property challenges, or if the platform becomes obsolete, our ability to maintain the platform, arrange member loans or perform our servicing obligations on the member loans could be adversely affected. Purchasers of Notes will have no control over LendingClub and will not be able to influence LendingClub corporate matters. The Notes offered through the LendingClub platform grant no equity interest in LendingClub to the purchaser nor grant the purchaser the ability to vote on or influence LendingClub corporate decisions. As a result, our stockholders will continue to exercise 100% voting control over all LendingClub corporate matters, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. RISKS RELATING TO COMPLIANCE AND REGULATION The LendingClub platform is a novel approach to borrowing that may fail to comply with borrower protection laws such as state usury laws, other interest rate limitations or federal and state consumer protection laws such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and their state counterparts. Borrower members may make counterclaims regarding the enforceability of their obligations after collection actions have commenced, or otherwise seek damages under these laws. Compliance with such regimes is also costly and burdensome. The LendingClub platform operates a novel program that must comply with regulatory regimes applicable to all consumer credit transactions. The novelty of our platform means compliance with various aspect of such laws is untested. Certain state laws generally regulate interest rates and other charges and require certain disclosures. In addition, other state laws, public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers, unfair and deceptive practices and debt collection practices may apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the member loans. Our platform is also subject to other federal and state laws, such as: • the federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated thereunder, and similar state laws, which require certain disclosures to borrower members regarding the terms of their member loans; • the federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated thereunder, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, marital status, national origin, receipt of public assistance or the exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, in the extension of credit; • the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use and reporting of information related to each borrower member’s credit history; and • the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar state debt collection laws, which regulate debt collection practices by “debt collectors” and prohibit debt collectors from engaging in certain practices in collecting, and attempting to collect, outstanding consumer loans. 42 Table of Contents We may not always have been, and may not always be, in compliance with these laws. Compliance with these requirements is also costly, time-consuming and limits our operational flexibility. Noncompliance with laws and regulations may impair our ability to arrange or service member loans. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements applicable to our business may, among other things, limit our, or a collection agency’s, ability to collect all or part of the principal amount of or interest on the member loans on which the Notes are dependent and, in addition, could subject us to damages, revocation of required licenses or other authorities, class action lawsuits, administrative enforcement actions, and civil and criminal liability, which may harm our business and ability to maintain the LendingClub platform and may result in borrower members rescinding their member loans. Where applicable, we seek to comply with state small loan, loan broker, servicing and similar statutes. Currently, we do not provide services to borrowers in Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota and Tennessee. In all other U.S. jurisdictions with licensing or other requirements we believe may be applicable to make loans, we have obtained any necessary licenses or comply with the relevant requirements. Nevertheless, if we are found to not comply with applicable laws, we could lose one or more of our licenses or authorizations or face other sanctions or be required to obtain a license in such jurisdiction, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to continue to arrange member loans through the platform, perform our servicing obligations or make the LendingClub platform available to borrower members in particular states, which may impair your ability to receive the payments of principal and interest on the Notes that you expect to receive. We rely on our agreement with WebBank to lend to qualified borrower members on a uniform basis throughout the United States. If our relationship with WebBank were to end, we may need to rely on individual state lending licenses to arrange member loans. Borrower member loan requests take the form of an application to WebBank, which cooperates with us to lend to qualified LendingClub borrower members and allows our platform to be available to borrowers on a uniform basis throughout the United States, except that we do not currently offer member loans in Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota and Tennessee. If our relationship with WebBank were to end, we may need to rely on individual state lending licenses to arrange member loans. Because we do not currently possess state lending licenses in every U.S. state, we may be required to discontinue lending or limit the rates of interest charged on member loans in some states. We may face increased costs and compliance burdens if our agreement with WebBank terminated. Several lawsuits have brought under scrutiny the association between high-interest “payday loan” marketers and out-of-state banks. These lawsuits assert that payday loan marketers use out-of-state lenders in order to evade the consumer protection laws imposed by the states where they do business. Such litigation has sought, successfully in some instances, to recharacterize the loan marketer as the lender for purposes of state consumer protection law restrictions. Similar civil actions have been brought in the context of gift cards. We believe that our activities are distinguishable from the activities involved in these cases. Nevertheless, if litigation on similar theories were successful against us, additional state consumer protection laws would be applicable to the member loans originated through the LendingClub platform if we were recharacterized as the lender. The member loans could also be voidable or unenforceable. In addition, we could be subject to claims by borrower members, as well as enforcement actions by regulators. Even if we were not required to cease doing business with residents of certain states or to change our business practices to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to register or obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on us. To date, no actions have been taken or threatened against us on the theory that we have engaged in unauthorized lending; however, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. As internet commerce develops, federal and state governments may draft and propose new laws to regulate internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal and state governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively affected by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to social lending. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our members in the form of increased fees. In addition, federal and state governmental or regulatory agencies may decide to impose taxes on services provided over the internet. These taxes could discourage the use of the internet as a means of consumer lending, which would adversely affect the viability of the LendingClub platform. 43 Table of Contents Financial regulatory reform could result in restrictions, oversight and costs that have an adverse effect on our business. In June 2009, the Obama Administration proposed a white paper, “Financial Regulatory Reform — A New Foundation: Rebuilding Financial Supervision and Regulation,” that recommends overhauling the financial regulatory system. The administration’s plan urges Congress and regulators to adopt changes to financial sector regulation and oversight, increasing the government’s role in the financial sector. The administration’s proposal includes the creation of new federal agencies, offices and councils. Congress is currently working on a final legislative proposal to increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on financial services companies. If these proposals or other financial reform proposals are adopted, they may result in restrictions, oversight and costs that have an adverse effect on our business. See “About LendingClub — Government Regulation” for more information regarding governmental regulation of the LendingClub platform. As a public reporting company, we face costly compliance burdens. As a public reporting company, we face costly compliance burdens, requiring significant legal, accounting and other expenses. Our management and other personnel must devote a substantial amount of time to public company compliance requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for our fiscal year ending March 31, 2010, we performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404A of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although through such testing we discovered no material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control at March 31, 2010, subsequent testing by us or our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Further, for our fiscal year ending March 31, 2010, our public accounting firm must make their own separate attestation on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404B of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. To comply with Section 404, we may incur substantial accounting expense, expend significant management time on compliance-related issues, and hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. If we discover a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which we are unable to remedy, or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. We are not currently required to have an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm has not performed such an audit. Should such a requirement arise and should we or our auditors discover a material weakness in our internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. We face a contingent liability for potential securities law violations in respect of loans sold to our members from May 2007 until April 7, 2008. This contingent liability may impair our ability to operate our platform and service the member loans that correspond to the Notes. Loans sold to members through our platform from our launch in May 2007 until April 7, 2008 may be viewed as involving an offering of securities that was not registered or qualified under federal or state securities laws. If the sale of these loans were viewed as an unregistered offering of securities, our members who hold these loans may be entitled to rescind their purchase and be paid their unpaid principal amount of the loans plus statutory interest. As of March 31. 2010, the aggregate principal balance of these loans purchased through our platform by purchasers not affiliated with LendingClub was $1.86 million. We have not recorded an accrued loss contingency in respect of this contingent liability, although we intend to continue to monitor the situation. Generally, the federal statute of limitations for noncompliance with the requirement to register securities under the Securities Act is one year from the violation. The statute of limitations periods under state securities laws may extend for a longer period of time, and certain state securities laws empower state officials to seek restitution or rescission remedies for purchasers of unregistered securities. We have received inquiries from a number of states in respect of these prior sales of loans; neither the SEC nor any state, however, has taken or threatened administrative action or litigation over such loan sales. If a significant number of our members sought rescission, if we were subject to a class action securities lawsuit or if we were subject to lawsuits or administrative actions by the SEC or states in respect of these loans, our ability to maintain our platform and service the member loans to which the Notes correspond may be adversely affected. 44 Table of Contents If we are required to register under the Investment Company Act, our ability to conduct our business could be materially adversely affected. The Investment Company Act of 1940, or the “Investment Company Act,” contains substantive legal requirements that regulate the manner in which “investment companies” are permitted to conduct their business activities. We believe we have conducted, and we intend to continue to conduct, our business in a manner that does not result in our company being characterized as an investment company. If, however, we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were deemed to be an investment company, we may also attempt to seek exemptive relief from the SEC, which could impose significant costs and delays on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 