ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are substantially dependent upon our relationship with CNH. The majority of our business involves the distribution and servicing of equipment manufactured by CNH. In fiscal 2013, CNH supplied approximately 82% of the new agricultural equipment and 64% of the new construction equipment we sold and represented a significant portion of our parts revenue. We also distribute equipment purchased from certain other equipment manufacturers. Our business depends on the continued market acceptance of our manufacturers' products. We also depend on our manufacturers for the timely supply of parts and equipment to fulfill our deliveries to customers. CNH's ability to match new product offerings to diverse customers' anticipated preferences for different types and sizes of equipment and various equipment features and functionality, at affordable prices, is important to CNH maintaining its industry market share and to our continued success in the agricultural and construction equipment distributor markets. While we believe that CNH has excellent brand recognition and customer support and will continue to do so, there can be no assurance that CNH will be able to maintain its reputation and market positions in the future. In addition to product offerings and support, we also depend on CNH or its affiliated entities for other programs and support including the following: •CNH Capital provides floorplan financing for the purchase of a substantial portion of our inventory. •CNH Capital provides a significant percentage of the financing used by our customers to purchase CNH equipment from us. 14 Table of Contents •CNH provides incentive programs and discount programs from time to time that enable us to price our products more competitively. •CNH conducts promotional and marketing activities on national, regional and local levels. Moreover, our acquisition strategy contemplates the acquisition of additional CNH geographic areas of responsibility and store locations in both the Agriculture and Construction segments, which acquisitions require the consent of CNH. Due to our substantial dependence on CNH, our success depends, in significant part, on (i) the overall reputation and success of CNH; (ii) the availability and terms of floorplan financing and customer financing from CNH Capital; (iii) the incentive and discount programs provided by CNH and its promotional and marketing efforts for its agricultural and construction products; (iv) the goodwill associated with CNH trademarks; (v) the introduction of new and innovative products by CNH; (vi) the manufacture and delivery of competitively-priced, high quality equipment and parts by CNH in quantities sufficient to meet our customers' requirements on a timely basis; (vii) the quality, consistency and management of the overall CNH dealership system; and (viii) the ability of CNH to manage its risks and costs, including those associated with being a multinational company. If CNH does not provide, maintain or improve any of the foregoing, or if CNH were sold or reduced or ceased operations, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on satisfactory Dealership Agreements with CNH. In the equipment dealership industry, relationships with equipment manufacturers are generally governed by dealership agreements. These agreements generally impose a number of restrictions and obligations on the dealer. Under our dealership agreements with CNH America, LLC, CNH has the right to terminate these agreements immediately in certain circumstances, and, in some cases, for any reason 90 days following written notice. Furthermore, CNH entities may change the terms of their agreements with us to, among other things, change our sales and service areas and/or the product, pricing or delivery terms. CNH routinely conducts evaluations of dealership standards, customer satisfaction surveys and market share studies, the results of which can impact the relationships with its dealers. CNH uses the evaluation results to increase or decrease the monetary rewards to dealers, or limit or expand the availability of financing, warranty reimbursements or other marketing incentives. If CNH were to change the terms of any or all of these agreements or its operating policies in a manner that adversely affects us, our business may be harmed, and if CNH were to terminate all or any of its dealer agreements with us, our business would be severely harmed. These dealership agreements impose a number of restrictions and obligations on us with respect to our operations, including our obligations to actively promote the sale of CNH equipment within our designated geographic areas of responsibility, fulfill the warranty obligations of CNH, provide services to our customers, maintain sufficient parts inventory to service the needs of our customers, maintain inventory in proportion to the sales potential in each sales and service geographic area of responsibility, maintain adequate working capital and maintain stores only in authorized locations. Restrictions in our CNH dealership agreements may significantly affect our growth and prevent a change in control of our company. Prior consent of CNH is required for the acquisition by another party of 20% or more of our outstanding stock and for our acquisition of other CNH dealerships; otherwise, CNH may terminate our dealership agreements. The restrictions and obligations in our CNH dealership agreements limit our flexibility in operating our current stores and acquiring new stores, which could have an adverse 15 Table of Contents effect on our operations and growth. Furthermore, the requirement that CNH consent to the acquisition by any party of 20% or more of our outstanding stock may have the effect of discouraging transactions involving a change in our control, including transactions that stockholders might deem to be in their best interests. There can be no assurances that CNH will give its consent for such change of ownership or acquisitions. Our CNH equipment dealer appointments do not grant exclusivity for the geographic areas we serve. CNH could appoint other equipment dealers in close proximity to our existing stores. The sales and service geographic areas of responsibility assigned to our stores can be enlarged or reduced by CNH upon 30 days' prior written notice. CNH and other equipment dealers can also sell in our sales and service geographic areas of responsibility. To the extent CNH appoints other equipment dealers within our markets, enlarges or reduces the sales and service geographic areas of responsibility relating to our stores, amends the dealership agreements or imposes new or different terms or conditions under the dealer agreements, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our operating results will be adversely impacted if our suppliers are unable to provide us with a reliable supply of equipment to satisfy the needs of our customers, or in the event of industry "over-supply" inventory situations. If our suppliers (principally CNH) cannot continue to provide us a reliable supply of new equipment, we may not be able to meet our customers' demand and our operating results could be negatively impacted. In times of heightened global demand for equipment, which is often driven by numerous external factors (e.g., net farm income often drives demand for agricultural equipment and infrastructure development/ construction activities often drives construction equipment demand), equipment suppliers may experience difficulty providing all dealerships a reliable supply of new equipment, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Further, an under-supply of our suppliers' equipment may cause prices for such equipment to increase. To the extent we cannot pass on any increased costs of equipment to our customers, based on current market conditions for our various stores, our operating results may suffer. Conversely, an industry over-supply of equipment would be an indicator of general weakness in market demand for our products, and a cause for concern for both distributors and manufacturers. Though manufacturers typically manage production of new equipment in response to demand, there may be short-term under-supplies or over-supplies of new equipment as manufacturers adjust to industry demand fluctuations. For used and rental equipment, short-term lease programs and commercial rental agencies for construction and agricultural equipment have expanded significantly in North America. Nationwide rental conglomerates have become sizeable purchasers of new equipment and can have a significant impact on industry sales and margins. When equipment comes off of lease or is replaced with newer equipment by rental agencies, there may be a significant increase in the availability of late-model used equipment. An over-supply of used equipment could adversely affect demand for, or the market prices of, new and used equipment. In addition, a decline in used equipment prices could have an adverse effect on residual values for rental equipment, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Adverse changes in the agricultural industries could result in decreases in purchases of agricultural equipment and harm our revenue and profitability. Our business depends to a great extent upon general activity levels in the agricultural industries. Changes in net farm income and farmland value, the level of worldwide farm output and demand for farm products, commodity prices, animal diseases and crop pests, limits on agricultural exports/imports, 16 Table of Contents and legislative changes, including changes to government regulations and programs promoting the ethanol and biofuels industries, are all material factors that could adversely affect the agricultural industries and result in a decrease in the amount of agricultural equipment that our customers purchase. The nature of the agricultural equipment industries is such that a downturn in demand can occur suddenly, resulting in excess inventories, un-utilized production capacity and reduced prices for new and used equipment. Such downturns may be prolonged and our revenue and profitability would be harmed. Adverse changes in the construction industry could result in decreased demand for construction equipment and harm our revenue and profitability. Our construction customers generally operate in the resource development, construction, transportation, manufacturing, industrial processing and utilities industries. Those industries generally are capital intensive and cyclical in nature. As a result, customer demand for our products and services may be affected by economic conditions at both a global and a local level. The uncertainties created by events in the sub-prime mortgage market and their impact on the overall mortgage market, including the tightening of credit standards, could adversely affect the ability of consumers to obtain financing, thus reducing demand for new construction and in turn reducing our customers' demand for our construction equipment. The construction industry in our geographical areas has experienced a prolonged economic down cycle as a result of the macroeconomic environment, and the residential construction downturn in many of our markets, which negatively impacts sales of light construction equipment. Reduced demand for our construction equipment could negatively affect our financial performance and cash flow. Economic events, particularly in the credit markets, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The agricultural and construction equipment industries are affected by macroeconomic factors, including changes in international, national, regional, and local economic conditions. Current global economic conditions pose a risk to our business as customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news, downturns in agricultural commodity prices, downturns in the housing market and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. Our business is also particularly dependent on our access to the capital and credit markets to finance acquisitions and manage inventory. Tight credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets have the potential to adversely affect our business. Such disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets and the related reduction in consumer confidence in the economy, slow activity in the capital markets, negatively affect access to credit on commercially acceptable terms, and may adversely impact the access of us or our customers to credit and the terms of any such credit. The nature of the agricultural and construction equipment industries is such that a downturn in demand can occur suddenly, due to tightening credit markets, decreasing commodity prices or demand, decreasing infrastructure and housing development, adverse weather conditions or other circumstances, resulting in excess inventory, un-utilized production capacity and reduced prices for equipment, which would harm our revenue and profitability. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions, agricultural commodity prices and demand and the housing market could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. Adverse changes in governmental policies including tax incentives, farm programs, and government spending, may reduce demand for agricultural and construction equipment and cause our revenue to decline. Customers in our Agriculture and Construction segments currently benefit from various tax incentives related to equipment purchases, including bonus depreciation and accelerated depreciation. 17 Table of Contents To the extent that changes in these tax incentives are reduced or eliminated, our customers may correspondingly delay or reduce future equipment purchases, and our revenue and profitability would be harmed. Changes in governmental agricultural policy could adversely affect sales of agricultural equipment. Government programs and subsidies that reduce economic volatility and enhance farm income, positively influence farmers' demand for agricultural equipment. Future farm bills and USDA budgets may reduce the benefit of these programs. We cannot predict the outcome of such changes to agricultural policies and to the extent that future funding or farm programs available to individual farmers are reduced, these changes could reduce demand for agricultural equipment and we could experience a decline in revenue. Changes in government spending on infrastructure projects could adversely affect the demand for construction equipment and we could experience a decline in revenue. Weather conditions may negatively impact the agricultural and construction equipment markets and harm our sales. Weather conditions, particularly severe floods and droughts, can have a significant impact on the success of regional agricultural and construction markets and, therefore, the economic conditions of the regions in which we operate stores. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by any adverse cyclical trends or weather conditions. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation due to varying weather patterns, which may impact the timing and amount of equipment, parts and service purchases by our customers. A significant increase in the severity of weather cycles could increase the volatility of our results of operations and impact our financial condition. If we acquire businesses in geographic areas other than where we currently have operations, we may be affected more by the above-mentioned or other seasonal and equipment buying trends. Our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period due to interest rate adjustments. The ability to finance affordable purchases, of which the interest rate charged is a significant component, is an important part of a customer's decision to purchase agricultural or construction equipment. Volatility in the credit markets may have a negative impact on our business by making it more difficult for certain of our customers to obtain financing to purchase agricultural or construction equipment. Interest rate increases may make equipment purchases less affordable for customers and, as a result, our revenue and profitability may decrease as we manage excess inventory and reduce prices for equipment. Conversely, any decrease in interest rates may positively affect a customer's decision to purchase agricultural or construction equipment. Partially as a result of the foregoing, our results of operations have in the past and in the future are expected to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. We are unable to anticipate the timing and impact of interest rate adjustments. Our operating results will be adversely impacted if we incur costs associated with our rental fleet that we are unable to pass along to our customers. We recognize annual depreciation expense on our rental fleet in accordance with our fixed asset policies, rather than based on actual usage. Thus, our operating results will be adversely impacted if the utilization of our rental fleet is lower than expected. In addition, the market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. In addition, if our rental equipment ages, the costs of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, will likely increase. The costs of maintenance may materially increase in the future and could lead to material adverse effects on our results of operations. The cost of new equipment for use in our 18 Table of Contents rental fleet could also increase due to increased material costs for our suppliers or other factors beyond our control. Such increases could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in future periods if we are not able to pass such cost increases through to our customers. Furthermore, changes in customer demand could cause certain of our existing equipment to become obsolete and require us to purchase new equipment at increased costs. An adverse change in commodity prices could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. Many of our customers are directly and indirectly affected by fluctuations in commodity prices in the agriculture, forestry, metals and minerals, petroleum and natural gas industries and, as a result, we are also indirectly affected by fluctuations in those prices. An adverse change in commodity prices or the regulatory, tax or operating environments for customers in those industries may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and profitability. Aggressive pricing competition could adversely affect our results of operation and growth. The agricultural and construction equipment sales, distribution and rental industries are highly competitive and fragmented, with large numbers of companies operating on a regional or local scale. Historically, our competitors have competed aggressively on the basis of pricing or inventory availability, resulting in decreased margins on our sales to the extent we choose to match our competitors' downward pricing. To the extent we choose not to match or remain within a reasonable competitive distance from our competitors' pricing, it could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may lose sales volume. In addition, to the extent CNH's competitors provide their dealers with more innovative or higher quality products, better customer financing, or have more effective marketing efforts, our ability to compete and financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to properly manage our equipment inventory, our largest asset, would have a significant adverse effect on our operations. The sale of agricultural and construction equipment requires substantial inventories of equipment and parts to be maintained at each store to facilitate sales to customers on a timely basis. Our equipment inventory has traditionally represented 50% or more of our total assets. Our purchases of parts and new equipment are based in large part on projected market demand. If actual market sales are materially less than forecasted sales for our products, we would experience an over-supply of inventory. An over-supply of inventory may cause negative financial consequences for us including a write down of the book value of our inventory due to certain items of inventory becoming obsolete, a write down of inventory due to adjustments based on a reduction in the estimated market value of certain aged inventory, downward pressure on our product prices, and increases to our floorplan financing expenses. External factors such as adverse weather, economic downturns, aggressive manufacturer incentives to influence dealers' purchases of new equipment, and legislative/regulatory changes, both in the areas we service and elsewhere, can result in material increases in the inventory supply for our industry. For instance, a prolonged period of adverse weather conditions such as drought or flood, even if it occurs in an area in which we do not operate, may cause inventory levels across our entire industry to increase. Such an over-supply of inventory in the industry may in turn result in sustained downward pressure on our product prices. As a result, we would not be able to realize expected revenues and cash flows from such inventory, which may negatively affect our results from operations, cash flows and profitability. The pricing of equipment can be highly volatile and subject to negotiation, particularly in the used equipment market. Pricing for and sales of used equipment can be significantly affected by the limited 19 Table of Contents market for such equipment. Further, liquidation prices of used agricultural and construction equipment can have significant fluctuations due to economic cycles, utilization trends and degree of specialization. We are dependent upon the ability of our management to maintain a proper balance of new and used equipment to assure satisfactory inventory turnover and to reduce floor-plan financing costs. A prolonged period where we have an over-supply of inventory could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Substantial inventory financing required for the equipment we sell may not be available, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations. We generally purchase our inventories of equipment with the assistance of floorplan financing programs through CNH Capital and other lenders. As we grow, whether internally or through acquisitions, our inventory requirements will increase and, as a result, our financing requirements also will increase. In the event that our available financing sources are not maintained or are insufficient to satisfy our future requirements, we would be required to obtain financing from other sources. There can be no assurance that additional or alternative financing could be obtained or obtained on commercially reasonable terms. To the extent additional financing cannot be obtained or obtained on commercially reasonable terms, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. If our acquisition plans are unsuccessful, we may not achieve our planned revenue growth. We believe a significant portion of our future growth will depend on our ability to acquire additional dealerships. Our ability to continue to grow through the acquisition of additional CNH geographic areas of responsibility and store locations or other businesses will be dependent upon the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable costs, our ability to compete effectively for available acquisition candidates and the availability of capital to complete the acquisitions. We may not successfully identify suitable targets, or if we do, we may not be able to close the transactions, or if we close the transactions, they may not be profitable. In addition, CNH's consent is required for the acquisition of any CNH dealership, and the consent of our lenders may be required for certain acquisitions. CNH typically evaluates management, performance and capitalization of a prospective acquirer in determining whether to consent to the sale of a CNH dealership. There can be no assurance that CNH or the Wells Fargo Bank Syndicate will consent to any or all acquisitions of dealerships that we may propose. If we are not able to successfully integrate newly-acquired dealerships, our financial performance may be adversely affected. Once an acquisition is completed, we face many other risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include incurring significantly higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses; failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships; disrupting our ongoing business; dissipating our management resources; failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; and impairing relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. Fully integrating an acquired dealership into our operations and realization of the full benefit of our strategies, operating model and systems may take several years. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with such acquisitions. To the extent we do not successfully avoid or overcome the risks or problems related to acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions also will have a significant impact on our financial position and capital needs, and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly results of operations. Acquisitions could include significant goodwill and intangible assets, which may result in future impairment charges that would reduce our stated earnings. 20 Table of Contents We have grown significantly through acquisitions in recent years and expect to continue to grow through acquisitions. Management has expended, and expects to continue to expend, significant time and effort in evaluating, completing and integrating acquisitions and opening new stores. Our systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our expanding operations. Any future growth will also impose significant added responsibilities on our executives, including the need to identify, recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. We may not be able to identify and retain such additional management. If we are unable to manage growth efficiently and effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. International operations expose us to additional risks. Operations in countries outside the U.S. are accompanied by certain risks and potential costs, including: •difficulties implementing our business model in foreign markets; •costs and diversion of management attention related to oversight of international operations; •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; •tariffs, quotas, and other regulations of international trade; •import and export licensing requirements; •compliance with multiple, and potentially conflicting, foreign laws, regulations and policies that are subject to change; •compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U.S. laws that apply to the international operations of U.S. companies; •lesser intellectual property protection in some foreign countries than exists in the U.S.; •changing economic conditions in the international markets in which we operate; •labor practices that differ from those in the U.S.; and •political and economic instability, including occasional disruption in foreign financial markets. These factors, in addition to others that we have not anticipated, may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations expose us to risks regarding fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and our related hedging activities cannot eliminate all risk to which we are exposed. The functional currency for most of our international subsidiaries is the applicable local currency. When the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against a foreign currency, the relative value of revenue recognized and the operating results of our international subsidiaries decreases or increases, respectively. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which we cannot predict, may adversely affect the results of our operations, the value of our foreign assets and liabilities and our cash flows. To protect the value of the our investments in our foreign operations against adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we may, from time to time, hedge a portion of our net investment in one or more of our foreign subsidiaries through the use of derivative instruments. In addition, we may use derivative instruments to hedge the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates on outstanding intercompany loans. However, our hedging activities may not fully eliminate all foreign currency risk to which we are exposed. 21 Table of Contents The use of derivative instruments exposes us to counterparty credit risk whereby our results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted if the counterparties to our derivative instruments are not able to satisfy their obligations to us. We are exposed to customer credit risks. We extend credit to our customers, generally on an unsecured basis. Although we are not substantially dependent on any one customer and we have a system of credit management in place, the failure to collect a large receivable would have an adverse effect on our profitability. Additionally, one of the reasons some of our rental customers find it more attractive to rent equipment than own that equipment is the need to deploy their capital elsewhere. This has been particularly true in industries with high growth rates such as the construction industry. However, some of our rental customers may have liquidity issues and ultimately may not be able to fulfill the terms of their rental agreements with us. If we are unable to manage credit risk issues adequately, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. Further, delinquencies and credit losses generally would be expected to increase if there was a slowdown in the economic recovery or worsening of economic conditions. We may lease store locations from related parties, and if we are unable to obtain commercially reasonable terms and conditions from these related parties or unrelated third parties in the future, our growth and financial condition may be adversely affected. As of January 31, 2013, we leased 49 of our store locations from parties related to our affiliates and we expect that we may lease future store locations from parties related to our affiliates. There is no guarantee that related parties will offer us commercially reasonable terms and conditions or that unrelated third parties will provide alternate store locations on commercially reasonable terms and conditions. If we cannot obtain commercially reasonable terms and conditions on leases for our current or future store locations from related parties, or from unrelated third parties, our growth and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are substantially dependent on our Chief Executive Officer and President/Chief Operating Officer, the loss of either of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe our success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of David Meyer, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Peter Christianson, our President and Chief Operating Officer. The employment relationships with both Mr. Meyer and Mr. Christianson are terminable by us or each of them at any time for any reason. The loss of the services of one or both of these persons and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our outstanding convertible notes may cause dilution to our existing stockholders and may negatively affect our financial position and liquidity. On April 24, 2012, we issued $150 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Convertible Notes due 2019 (the "Convertible Notes") pursuant to an indenture between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (the "Indenture"). The Convertible Notes will be convertible at the option of the holders under certain conditions. Upon conversion, we will pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of converted notes and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election, for any conversion obligation in excess thereof. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, the holders of the Convertible Notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. 22 Table of Contents The Indenture provides for customary events of default, including, but not limited to, cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness of us and our subsidiaries. In the case of an event of default, all outstanding Convertible Notes may become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If we issue shares of our common stock to satisfy conversion obligations under the Convertible Notes, our existing stockholders will experience dilution of their holdings of our stock. Repayment of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes in cash and, if applicable, satisfaction of our conversion obligations in cash may have a significant negative effect on our available capital resources and liquidity which may require us to borrow additional amounts pursuant to terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal balance of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Selling and renting agricultural and construction equipment and selling parts subject us to product liability risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and reputation. Products sold, rented or serviced by us may expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or property damage claims relating to the use of such products. Our product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover product liability claims. Such insurance may not continue to be available on economically reasonable terms. An uninsured or partially insured claim for which indemnification is not provided could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, if any significant claims are made against us or against CNH or any of our other suppliers, our business may be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity. Being a public company has substantially increased our legal and financial compliance costs, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with regulations applicable to publicly-traded companies adversely impacts our resources. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to rules and regulations that increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more time-consuming and costly, and divert our management's attention away from the operation of our business. These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, we may experience more difficulty attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of these requirements or the timing of these costs. The costs of being a publicly-traded company and the attendant diversion of management's time and attention may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to its effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remedial actions or their 23 Table of Contents impact on our operations. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In fiscal 2010, we began implementing a new ERP system. Unforeseen problems with or any difficulties encountered integrating the new ERP system could result in internal control deficiencies. Any disruption to or failure of our information systems may negatively affect our ability to monitor and control our operations. Our business processes, including marketing of equipment and support services, inventory and logistics, and finance largely depend upon the integrity of our information systems. We use an integrated business system for dealers in the construction or agriculture equipment business. Any disruptions to our information systems or the failure of such systems to operate as expected may adversely affect our operating results by limiting our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 