1A. Risk Factors 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 37 Item 2. Properties 38 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 38 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 40 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 53 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 Item 9A(T). Controls and Procedures 83 Item 9B. Other Information 83 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 84 Item 11. Executive Compensation 84 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 84 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 84 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 84 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 85 EX-3.2: AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS EX-10.36: 2007 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN EX-10.37: 2007 EXECUTIVE EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN EX-10.40: AMENDMENT NO.1 TO LICENSE AGREEMENT EX-10.41: AMENDMENT NO.1 TO LICENSE AGREEMENT EX-14.1: CODE OF ETHICS EX-21.1: LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the words “we,” “us,” “our,” “FXRE,” and the “Company” collectively refer to FX Real Estate and Entertainment Inc., and its consolidated, FX Luxury Realty, LLC, BP Parent, LLC, Metroflag BP, LLC and Metroflag Cable, LLC. Some of the descriptive material in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to the assets, liabilities, operations, results, activities or other attributes of the historical business conducted by FX Luxury Realty and its predecessors, including BP Parent, LLC, Metroflag BP, LLC, Metroflag Cable, LLC, Metroflag Polo, LLC, CAP/TOR, LLC, Metroflag SW, LLC, Metroflag HD, LLC and Metroflag Management, LLC, as if it had been conducted by us. We sometimes refer to these predecessor entities collectively herein as “Metroflag” or the “Metroflag entities.” General We are a newly formed entertainment company with a plan to pursue real estate and attraction-based projects throughout the world. Through our indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, BP Parent, LLC, Metroflag BP, LLC and Metroflag Cable, LLC, we own 17.72 contiguous acres of land located at the southeast corner of Las Vegas Boulevard and Harmon Avenue in Las Vegas, Nevada, known as the Park Central site. The Park Central site is currently occupied by a motel and several commercial and retail tenants. We intend to pursue a hotel, casino, entertainment, retail, commercial and residential development project on the Park Central site. Our license agreements with Elvis Presley Enterprises, Inc., an 85%-owned subsidiary of CKX, and Muhammad Ali Enterprises LLC, an 80%-owned subsidiary of CKX, allow us to use the intellectual property and certain other assets associated with Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali in the development of our real estate and other entertainment attraction based projects. We currently anticipate that the development of the Park Central site will involve multiple elements that incorporate the Elvis Presley assets and theming. In addition, the license agreement with Elvis Presley Enterprises grants us the right to develop, and we currently intend to pursue the development of, one or more hotels as part of the master plan of Elvis Presley Enterprises to redevelop the Graceland property and surrounding areas in Memphis, Tennessee. In addition to our ownership of and plans for the redevelopment of the Park Central site, our plan to develop one or more Graceland-based hotel(s), and our intention to pursue additional real estate and entertainment based developments using the Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali intellectual property, we own 1,410,363 shares of common stock of Riviera Holdings Corporation [AMEX: RIV], a company that owns and operates the Riviera Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada and the Blackhawk Casino in Blackhawk, Colorado. While we do not currently have any definitive plans or agreements with Riviera Holdings Corporation related to the acquisition of Riviera, we continue to explore an acquisition of such company. Recent Developments Rights Offering In March 2008, we commenced a registered rights offering pursuant to which we have distributed to our stockholders transferable subscription rights to purchase one share of our common stock for every two shares of common stock owned as of March 6, 2008, the record date for the offering, at a cash subscription price of $10.00 per share. As of March 6, 2008, we had 39,790,248 shares of common stock outstanding. As part of the transaction that created our Company in June 2007, we agreed to undertake the rights offering, and certain stockholders who own, in the aggregate, 20,046,898 shares of our common stock, waived their rights to participate in the rights offering. As a result, the rights offering is being made only to stockholders who own, in the aggregate, 19,743,349 shares of our common stock as of March 6, 2008 (the record date), resulting in our distribution of rights to purchase up to 9,871,674 shares of common stock in the rights offering. The rights offering will expire at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on April 11, 2008, unless we decide to terminate the rights offering earlier or extend the rights offering until some later time. The rights offering is being made to fund certain obligations, including short-term obligations described elsewhere herein. The total purchase price of shares to be offered in the rights offering will be approximately $98.7 million. Robert F.X. Sillerman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and The Huff Alternative Fund, L.P. (“Huff”), one of our principal stockholders, have entered into investment agreements with us, pursuant to which they have agreed to purchase shares that are not otherwise subscribed for in the rights offering, if any, at the same $10.00 per share subscription price. In particular, under Huff’s investment agreement with us, Huff has agreed to purchase 1 Table of Contents the first $15 million of shares (1.5 million shares at $10 per share) that are not subscribed for in the rights offering, if any, and 50% of any other unsubscribed shares, up to a total investment of $40 million; provided, however, Huff is not obligated to purchase any shares beyond its initial $15 million investment in the event that Mr. Sillerman does not purchase an equal number of shares at the $10 price per share pursuant to the terms of his investment agreement with us. Under his investment agreement with us, Mr. Sillerman agreed to subscribe for his full pro rata amount of shares in the rights offering (representing 3,037,265 shares), as well as to purchase up to 50% of the shares that are not sold in the rights offering after Huff’s initial $15 million investment at the same subscription price per share being offered to our stockholders. The maximum number of shares that are required to be purchased pursuant to the terms of these investment agreements is 9,537,365, which would result in total gross proceeds of $95.4 million. On March 12, 2008, Mr. Sillerman exercised his rights and purchased 3,037,265 shares of common stock pursuant to his investment agreement. Conditional Option Agreement with 19X We have entered into an Option Agreement with 19X, Inc. pursuant to which, in consideration for annual option payments as described elsewhere herein, we would have the right to acquire an 85% interest in the Elvis Presley business currently owned and operated by CKX, Inc. through its Elvis Presley Enterprises subsidiaries (“EPE”) at an escalating price over time as set forth elsewhere herein. Because 19X will only own those rights upon consummation of its pending acquisition of CKX, the effectiveness of the Option Agreement is conditioned upon the closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX. In the event that the merger agreement between 19X and CKX is terminated without consummation or the merger fails to close for any reason, the Option Agreement with 19X will also terminate and thereafter have no force and effect. For a more detailed description of the conditional Option Agreement with 19X please see below under the heading “—The Company— Transactions With and Involving Elvis Presley Enterprises—Conditional Option Agreement with 19X.” Conditional Amendment to License Agreement with Elvis Presley Enterprises We have also entered into an agreement with 19X to amend the License Agreement between our Company and EPE, which amendment shall only become effective upon the closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX. Because 19X will only own EPE upon consummation of its pending acquisition of CKX, the effectiveness of the License amendment, as with the Option Agreement, is conditioned upon the closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX. In the event that the merger agreement between 19X and CKX is terminated without consummation or the merger fails to close for any reason, the License amendment will never become effective and therefore will have no force and effect. If and when effective, the amendment to the License Agreement will provide that, if, by the date that is 7 1/2 years following the closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX, EPE has not achieved certain financial thresholds, we shall be entitled to a reduction of $50 million against 85% of the payment amounts due under the License Agreement, with such reduction to occur ratably over the ensuing three year period; period; provided, however, that if we have failed in our obligations to build any hotel to which we had previously committed under the definitive Graceland master redevelopment plan, then this reduction shall not apply. For a more detailed description of the conditional amendment to the License Agreement with Elvis Presley Enterprises please see below under the heading “—The Company — Transactions with and Involving Elvis Presley Enterprises — Conditional Amendment.”. Approval Process Because our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert F.X. Sillerman, is also the Chairman and President of 19X, the Option Agreement and the agreement to amend the License Agreement with EPE are deemed affiliated transactions and therefore required the review and oversight of a special committee of our independent directors. A special committee comprised of independent directors Messrs. David M. Ledy and Harvey Silverman was established to review and oversee the transaction. The special committee engaged The Salter Group to serve as its independent financial advisor in connection with its review of the financial terms of the Option Agreement and engaged independent legal counsel to assist in its review and oversight of the transactions. Our board of directors, acting upon the unanimous recommendation of the special committee, has (except for abstentions by directors affiliated with 19X or EPE) unanimously approved the transaction. The Company The Park Central Site 2 Table of Contents The Park Central site, consisting of six contiguous parcels aggregating 17.72 acres of land, is located on the southeast corner of Las Vegas Boulevard and Harmon Avenue in Las Vegas, Nevada. The property enjoys strong visibility with 1,175 feet of frontage on Las Vegas Boulevard, known as “the Strip”, and 600 feet of frontage on Harmon Avenue. The entire 17.72 acre parcel is zoned H-1, Limited Resort and Apartment District, and allows for casino gaming through its designation as a Gaming Enterprise District, or GED, and can support a variety of development alternatives, including hotels/resorts, entertainment venue(s), a casino, condominiums, hotel-condominiums, residences and retail establishments. Las Vegas Boulevard is a major north-south traffic route through the city and Harmon Avenue is a heavily used east-west thoroughfare that provides convenient access to McCarran International Airport. We believe the corner of Las Vegas Boulevard and Harmon Avenue is one of the most concentrated areas of pedestrian traffic on the Las Vegas strip. We expect to capitalize on this pool of potential customers by leveraging the property’s significant frontage on Las Vegas Boulevard and Harmon Avenue through attractions, theming and architectural design. The site is directly adjacent to the MGM Grand and across the street from MGM’s CityCenter project, which is scheduled to open its first phase in late 2009 with the entire project scheduled to open in 2010. MGM has announced that the approximately $7.8 billion CityCenter project is planned to include approximately 2,800 units of luxury condominiums; a 4,000-room luxury hotel and casino; two 400-room, non-gaming boutique hotels; and over 665,000 square feet of retail, dining and entertainment venues. The CityCenter project also is planned to include a permanent live Elvis Presley-themed show which is being created and produced by CKX and Cirque du Soleil. The completion of MGM’s CityCenter project will solidify the intersection of Las Vegas Boulevard and Harmon Avenue as one of the most important on the Las Vegas strip. Planet Hollywood, The Bellagio, Paris, The Monte Carlo and New York New York, among other major resorts, are also in the property’s immediate area. We believe that the “cluster effect” associated with the close proximity of these facilities will further drive pedestrian traffic and visitation. The following map illustrates the location of the Park Central site on the Las Vegas Strip and its proximity to the hotels, casinos, resorts and other attractions in the area: Significant redevelopment has occurred and is continuing to occur along Harmon Avenue. There are several separate mixed-use condominium/hotel/casino developments currently planned or underway along the Harmon Avenue corridor which has been reported to represent approximately $20 billion of investment. While each of these projects is being pursued independently and is in various stages of development, several, including the MGM CityCenter, Cosmopolitan, Panorama Towers and the Chateau (a new major Marriott Vacation Club development), are currently under construction. In response to this rapid development, Clark County has begun a series of major improvements to Harmon Avenue. The County has ear-marked $11 million to be spent on widening roads, improving access/egress and completing an extension of Harmon Avenue by constructing a bridge over I-15 and constructing improvements to Valley View Boulevard. The goal is to replicate the improvements made to Las Vegas Boulevard which would enhance both pedestrian and vehicular traffic as well as the overall beautification of the area. In addition, the Las Vegas Monorail has announced plans for a $1.3 billion expansion that would connect the Convention Center and resort properties on both sides of the Strip with McCarran International Airport and the Thomas & Mack; however the project has not yet received funding necessary to realize the plan. We believe that the planned new developments as well as the redevelopment, improvement and expansion plans for the area around the Park Central site, including infrastructure, will substantially increase exposure, access and visitation and therefore enhance the opportunities available for development of the property. Development Plans We have contracted an international consulting firm with a focus on economic analysis for the entertainment and leisure development industry to conduct a feasibility study on the site to examine the potential development options for the site. Based on the study, management believes that the site is well suited for, but not limited to, a multi-use development which would include a mix of hotel, casino, entertainment venue(s), condominium, and retail establishments. 3 Table of Contents The information set forth below describes our current plan for the development of the Park Central site. The description provided assumes completion of the development in accordance with the current plan. There can be no assurance this current plan will not change as design development proceeds. Furthermore, our ability to implement this plan and any variation thereof is subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those set forth under the heading “Item 1A. Risk Factors”. We plan to commence construction in the first quarter of 2009 with a targeted completion date in the fourth quarter of 2012. We are designing the project to compete within the upper strata of the luxury market. The initial phase of the project is multi-faceted and will contain diverse and distinctive elements to appeal to a range of clientele. We have designed a first-class environment of elegance, sophistication and luxury intended to appeal to all Las Vegas visitors, while a premium level of luxury, amenities and service is expected to attract high-roller and premium gaming clientele, as well as middle market clientele. The development will incorporate elements of entertainment appealing to all demographics, offering daytime and nighttime entertainment options not otherwise available in the market. The initial phase will include over approximately 8 million square feet (exclusive of parking) consisting of a luxury hotel casino, the first for our Elvis-inspired luxury brand, and a major luxury branded 5-star hotel. The luxury hotel casino is expected to include 2,269 rooms and be wholly owned and operated by us. The major luxury branded 5-star hotel is expected to include approximately 778 rooms and approximately 147 residential units. Although we have determined the overall scope and design of our planned development of the Park Central site, we will continue to evaluate the design in relation to the demands of the Las Vegas market. As a result, all of the features described below are based on our current plans for the site and, therefore, the design of specific elements may be refined in the future. We have designed the luxury hotel casino to feature approximately 93,000 square feet of gaming area that will house approximately 2,200 electronic games and 130 gaming tables. This square footage does not include the space allocated for a high limit area, race and sports book, and poker room. We also plan for the facility to feature convention space of approximately 206,000 square feet which will include banquet space, ballrooms and break-out meeting rooms with direct access to our 1,605 seat multi-use theater/showroom. We expect to feature approximately 100,000 square feet of entertainment venues, a portion of which will be dedicated to Elvis themed attractions. These will include an interactive multimedia experience, a boutique and a superstore. The Elvis inspiration will highlight an expansive wedding chapel complex, which is expected to include several chapels, bridal and flower shop, wedding reception and banquet areas. Our current plans include approximately 94,000 square feet of retail space, distributed throughout the facility, and 14 restaurants with an aggregate of approximately 3,400 seats and various bar/lounge areas seating approximately 675 in total. The hotel tower will be crowned with a roof top restaurant over 600 feet above the Las Vegas Strip which will convert to an ultra lounge in the evening. Our plan provides for 2,269 rooms, which includes 1,866 standard rooms of approximately 611 square feet and 392 suites ranging from 855 to over 6,400 square feet. The property will also include 7 spacious villas overlooking the pool area for our most discerning guests. The second hotel in the first phase, which we expect will be branded by a 5-star luxury hotel operator, will be designed to meet the brand standard. This is currently contemplated to include a meeting room component of approximately 37,200 square feet, and a restaurant, bar/lounge, health club and spa. The 147 residences are expected to feature 1, 2 and 3-bedroom units averaging 2,274 net sellable square feet. We have had and continue to have discussions with potential hotel operators regarding this hotel, though such discussions are still preliminary in nature. Based on preliminary budgets, management estimates total construction costs of the current plan to be approximately $3.1 billion (exclusive of land cost and related financing and other pre-opening costs). A future phase is intended to include a 1,000 room hotel constructed either solely by us or with a joint venture partner. The subterranean and above ground infrastructure to support the future development are intended to be constructed during this initial phase. The cost of such subterranean and above ground infrastructure is included in the construction costs for the initial phase outlined above. Our current operations do not generate sufficient revenue, when combined with cash on hand, to support our development plans for the Park Central site. Therefore, the redevelopment of the Park Central site is dependent upon our ability to raise significant amounts of additional capital, likely through debt and/or equity financings. 4 Table of Contents To implement the current development scheme as depicted in the chart above, we are negotiating agreements with W.A. Richardson Builders. The principals of W.A. Richardson have over 25 years of experience in designing, building and opening large scale resort properties including Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino, Monte Carlo Resort and Casino and a 2,000 room addition to the Luxor Hotel and Casino. W.A. Richardson is currently serving as a development consultant, though we have not yet finalized the definitive terms of this consultancy. We are also negotiating agreements pursuant to which W.A. Richardson will serve as the general contractor for the construction of the improvements. Klai Juba Architects and YWS Architects, two professional design, architecture and planning firms specializing in hospitality and gaming resort projects, have been engaged to work on the design development plans, although we are still in the process of negotiating definitive agreements with such firms. Zoning and Development Restrictions The Park Central site is currently zoned within the GED district, the standard designation for casino properties, on all of the property’s acres and has H-1 zoning for density, which would permit the development of casinos, hotels, condominiums, apartments, office and retail space. Given the site’s proximity to McCarran International Airport, we have acquired Federal Aviation Administration approval to build up to 600 feet above ground level. The approval was initially scheduled to lapse on September 30, 2007, but upon our request it was automatically extended until February 10, 2009. Future extensions are not automatic and would be at the discretion of the Federal Aviation Administration. Parcels 2 and 3 are subject to a Grant of Reciprocal Easements and Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions, or the REA, the fundamental purpose of which was to create cross-easements to establish a coordinated pattern for the flow of traffic to, from and within those parcels and the adjacent properties east of the parcels (known as Polo Towers and the Chateau Parcel), and to and from Harmon Avenue and Las Vegas Boulevard, the major streets adjoining the parcels. In addition to various specific access easements and restrictions, the REA also contains ancillary provisions relating to signage, utility rights, and parking rights, which benefit and burden one or more of Parcels 2 and 3, none of which, we believe, are materially adverse to the development in the manner currently contemplated. The REA does not affect any of Parcels 4, 5 and 6. The REA contains two restrictions which could affect the value of Parcels 2 and 3: (i) a height restriction on construction on Parcel 3, and (ii) a general restriction on the sale of timeshare interests in improvements constructed on Parcels 2 and 3. The Parcel 3 height restrictions permit unlimited construction up to 41 feet and prohibit all construction above 160 feet. Improvements between 41 feet and 80 feet are permitted upon the payment of an amount of up to $2 million to buy timeshare interests held in the west-facing units located on the 4th to 8th floors of the Polo Towers building, a building located immediately to the east of Parcel 3, whose west-facing (only) view corridor (the Las Vegas Boulevard side) may be obstructed. If we choose to build above 80 feet and up to a maximum of 160 feet, the purchase of timeshare interests would also be required, but without limitation as to the aggregate cost. In either case, the purchase price for a timeshare unit would be basically the cost to construct a similar timeshare unit in another building. In either case, the obligation to purchase arises only if a timeshare owner demands of the Polo Towers developer that it repurchase the interest because of the obstruction of the view caused by our improvements. The current plans provide for the height of the improvements affected by the limitation on Parcel 3 to reach up to 160 feet. Based on such plans, we will need to estimate the cost of the purchase obligation, but we have not yet done so. The height restrictions do not affect improvements constructed anywhere on the parcels other than Parcel 3, which is directly West of the Polo Towers building. All these restrictions can be modified or terminated if agreed to by developers of the Polo Towers, without any required consent of the timeshare owners or any condominium or homeowners’ association. Although some discussions regarding the lifting or modification of such restrictions have taken place, there is no assurance that they will be lifted or modified and, if so, at what cost. The timeshare provision remains in effect until 2025 and would prohibit sales of timeshare interests, or hotel interests which would be substantially the same as timeshare interests, located within improvements constructed on Parcels 2 and 3. It does not prohibit the sale of “luxury” fractional interests. 5 Table of Contents History and Current Operations on Park Central Site The Park Central site consists of six contiguous parcels that comprise a collective 17.72 acres of land. The site is currently occupied by a motel and several commercial and retail tenants with a mix of short and long-term leases. The Park Central site’s six parcels generated total rental income and other income of approximately $21.4 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Set forth below is a summary of the parcels, including a description of the land, the year in which it was acquired and the purchase price, the current tenant(s), the current total annual rental income and the current term(s) of the lease(s). Parcel 1. Parcel 1 consists of 0.996 acres of land with 115 linear feet of frontage on Las Vegas Boulevard and 150 linear feet of frontage on Harmon Avenue. One tenant currently occupies Parcel 1. The lease for the property is terminable at any time by either party upon 120 days’ prior written notice and without the payment of a termination fee. This lease generated rental income of $1.6 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We acquired the property in May 2006 for a total purchase price of $36.6 million. Parcel 2. Parcel 2 consists of 5.135 acres of land with 210 linear feet of frontage on Las Vegas Boulevard and 450 linear feet of frontage on Harmon Avenue. The property is currently occupied by a Travelodge motel which we own in fee, as well as several retail, billboard and parking lot tenants. The Travelodge motel is being operated by WW Lodging pursuant to a management agreement. The management agreement is terminable upon 30 days’ prior notice and a payment of a termination fee equal to 4% of the trailing 12 months room revenue multiplied by 200%. The property’s retail, billboard and parking lot leases are month-to-month. We intend to maintain only month-to-month leases on the property in order to accommodate our development of the parcel. These current leases generated total rental income of $5.2 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We completed the acquisition of the ground lease and the motel in March 2003 for $3.5 million, and acquired the underlying fee title to the land in December 2006 for $55 million. Parcel 3. Parcel 3 consists of 2.356 acres of land, with 275 linear feet of frontage on Las Vegas Boulevard. The property currently hosts the Hawaiian Marketplace, which consists of multiple retail tenants. All but six of the leases on this property are terminable at any time upon 30 days’ (in one instant upon 180 days’) advance written notice and without payment of a termination fee. All six leases not so terminable with notice are terminable by us at any time upon the exercise of options to either repurchase, recapture or relocate the premises. We estimate the aggregate cost to exercise the options to repurchase, recapture or relocate the tenants in connection with these six leases to be $4.0 million to $4.5 million, assuming we elect to do so in the next twelve months. The current leases generated total rental income of $4.9 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We completed the acquisition of the parcel for $25.8 million in March 2003. In 2004, we completed construction of the Hawaiian Marketplace for a total cost of $33.6 million. Parcel 4. Parcel 4 consists of 4.49 acres of land with 270 linear feet of frontage on Las Vegas Boulevard. The property is currently occupied by several tenants. The current leases are month-to-month, except for a lease with a single tenant. Such tenant’s lease term expires in May 2009, which may be extended for an additional five years at the option of the tenant. If we are unable to reach an agreement with respect to an early termination of this lease, a relocation of the existing establishment, or granting us the right to build above or around this tenant, the development of this parcel could be delayed. These leases generated total rental income of $2.8 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We acquired the property for $90 million in January 2005. Parcel 5. Parcel 5 consists of 3.008 acres of land, with 180 linear feet of frontage on Las Vegas Boulevard. The property accommodates 51,414 square feet of retail space and is currently occupied by several restaurant and retail tenants. One lease term expires in January 2012, but is terminable earlier upon 120 days’ advance written notice and, if terminated after February 2010, payment of a termination fee of $200,000. Another lease term expires in December 2009, with the tenant holding two options to extend the lease for five year periods. If we are unable to reach an agreement with respect to an early termination of this lease, a relocation of the existing establishment, or granting us the right to build above or around this tenant, the development of this parcel could be delayed. A third lease term expires in March 2008, with the tenant holding an option to extend the lease for an additional five years. This lease is terminable earlier than March 2008, or thereafter if extended, upon 6 months’ advance written notice and payment of a termination fee of $450,000. A fourth lease term expires in August 2012, with the tenant holding 6 Table of Contents an option to extend the lease for an additional five years. However, under such lease, we have the right to build on top of and around the tenant, although we are obligated to reimburse the tenant for loss of reasonable profits if construction causes closure of the restaurant. A fifth lease term expires in May 2059. However, because the tenant’s store is a separate box structure, it is capable of being integrated into future development plans. Parcel 5 is subject to a covenant that allows us to construct a building containing one or more floors upon and above such tenant’s building and to utilize and extend the structural members and replace the exterior service facilities, as may be reasonably necessary to serve any new construction. These leases generated total rental income of $4.3 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We acquired the property for $17 million in March 1998. Parcel 6. Parcel 6 consists of 1.765 acres of land, with 125 linear feet of frontage on Las Vegas Boulevard. The property accommodates 2,094 square feet of retail space and is currently occupied by a restaurant and several retail tenants. One lease term expires in December 2013, another lease term expires in April 2011 and a third lease term expires in January 2009, with the tenant holding two options to extend the lease term for 5 year periods. A fourth lease term expires in May 2045, although we have the right to construct improvements on, over and under other portions of Parcel 6. These leases generated total rental income of $2.6 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We acquired the land and the fourth lease for $30.1 million in May 2005. Transaction With and Involving Elvis Presley Enterprises Hotel(s) at Graceland Graceland, the 13.5 acre estate which served as the primary residence of Elvis Presley from 1957 until his passing in 1977, is located in Memphis, Tennessee. Graceland was first opened to public tours in 1982. Over the past five years, Graceland has averaged approximately 565,000 visitors per year. The focal point of the Graceland business is a guided mansion tour, which includes a walk through the historic residence, as well as an extensive display of Elvis’ gold records and awards, career mementos, stage costumes, jewelry, photographs and more. The tour also includes a visit to the Meditation Garden, where Elvis and members of his family have been laid to rest. In February 2006, CKX and Elvis Presley Enterprises disclosed that they had held meetings with government officials in Memphis, Tennessee regarding preliminary plans to redevelop and expand the Graceland attraction as the centerpiece of the Whitehaven section of Memphis. In April 2006, CKX commissioned Robert A.M. Stern Architects to develop a master plan for Graceland and the surrounding properties owned by CKX. The master plan incorporates approximately 104 acres surrounding and contiguous to the Graceland mansion property. CKX also engaged Economics Research Associates to provide an analysis of the economic potential of the redevelopment. The master plan is expected to include a new visitor center, exhibition space, retail, hotel, convention facilities, public open space and parking on both sides of Elvis Presley Boulevard. Under the terms of our license agreement with Elvis Presley Enterprises described below, we have the option to construct and operate one or more of the hotels to be developed as part of the master plan for Graceland. If we elect to pursue this development, Elvis Presley Enterprises will either grant to us a fee title to the land for the first such hotel, or if such fee title cannot be transferred, grant us a long term lease, with a term of not less than 99 years, at de minimus annual cost. We will be required to pay Elvis Presley Enterprises a royalty of 3% of gross revenue derived from any hotel we construct at Graceland. Under the terms of the license agreement, we delivered written notice on November 21, 2007 to Elvis Presley Enterprises exercising our right to develop the first hotel as part of the Graceland master plan development; however, no definitive plans have been prepared and we have yet to finalize a development budget for the project. We expect to launch our “Heartbreak Hotel” mid-market positioned, themed entertainment hotel brand with the development and construction of the first of our hotels at Graceland. The development of the Graceland master plan and the incorporation of the aforementioned hotels into such development is an important part of our business plan. We have been advised by CKX and Elvis Presley Enterprises that the master plan remains a work in progress and that no plans have been finalized with respect to the relative size, layout and integration of the various elements, including the hotel(s) we intend to develop. We believe the expertise and experience of our senior management in the areas of hotel and property development may prove valuable to the development process as CKX and Elvis Presley Enterprises seek to maximize the visitor experience as well as the revenue potential for the property. Under the terms of our conditional option agreement with 19X, we have agreed to undertake an expanded role in the overall development of the Graceland master plan. The parties have agreed to reasonably cooperate with one another in good faith to prepare a master plan for the development of the Graceland site, with each party bearing 7 Table of Contents 50% of the costs associated with preparation of the master plan, provided that 19X shall be reimbursed costs in excess of $2.5 million by us at the first to occur of (i) we terminate our involvement in the master plan process, (ii) we exercise the rights to acquire the Presley Interests or (iii) we terminate the option agreement as a result of certain actions by 19X. In the event the parties cannot agree on the design for the master plan, then 19X shall have the right to complete the development in its sole discretion, subject to our rights under our license agreement with Elvis Presley Enterprises as described below, provided, however, that we shall have the right to provide input into the redevelopment and be reasonably informed as to the status thereof, although all final decisions in respect thereof shall be made by 19X in its sole discretion. Under the terms of the license agreement amendment described below, we may lose our right to construct the hotel(s) referenced above (i) in the event we approve a master plan but subsequently fail to deliver a notice within ten days of such approval of our intent to proceed with the hotels contemplated in the master plan or, (ii) if we fail to deliver our notice of intent to proceed within ninety days of presentation of a master that 19X has agreed to undertake but which we have not approved. If our option agreement with 19X becomes effective and we were to exercise the option to acquire the Presley business, we would assume control of the entire redevelopment. If our conditional option agreement with 19X does not become effective and either CKX or Elvis Presley Enterprises seeks our increased involvement in the development of the overall plans, or the hotel complexes to be developed by us become a larger element of the overall project, including becoming more integrated into the visitor and mansion experience, we may seek to expand our relationship with Elvis Presley Enterprises to allow and compensate us, for this increased involvement and oversight. Elvis Presley License Agreement Grant of Rights The license agreement with Elvis Presley Enterprises grants us the exclusive right to use Elvis Presley-related intellectual property in connection with designing, constructing, operating, and promoting Elvis Presley-themed real estate and attraction based properties, including Elvis Presley-themed hotels, casinos, theme parks and lounges (subject to certain restrictions, including, but not limited to, certain approval rights of Elvis Presley Enterprises). The license also grants us the non-exclusive right to use Elvis Presley-related intellectual property in connection with designing, constructing, operating and promoting Elvis Presley-themed restaurants. Under the terms of the license agreement, we have the right to manufacture and sell merchandise relating to each Elvis Presley property at the applicable property, but Elvis Presley Enterprises will have final approval over all such merchandise that we may sell. If we have not opened an Elvis Presley-themed restaurant, theme park and/or lounge by June 1, 2017, then the rights for the category we have not exploited revert to Elvis Presley Enterprises. Elvis Presley Experiences Under the terms of the license agreement, we have the right to participate, under certain circumstances, in the development by Elvis Presley Enterprises of any “Elvis Presley Experience,” defined as any permanent, non-touring interactive entertainment, educational and retail experiences incorporating music, artifacts, and audiovisual works focusing on the life and times of Elvis Presley. As defined in the license agreement, an Elvis Presley Experience does not include a permanent live show of the type that is being created and produced by CKX and Cirque du Soleil and performed at MGM’s CityCenter. As such, we have no ownership, economic interest or other participation in such show. If Elvis Presley Enterprises intends to create an Elvis Presley Experience in collaboration with a third party, we have the right to invest in up to 50% of the economic and beneficial interests owned by Elvis Presley Enterprise in such project. If Elvis Presley Enterprises desires to create an Elvis Presley Experience without third party collaboration, we have the right to participate in such project such that (i) Elvis Presley Enterprises shall bear the initial production costs (until opening) of such Elvis Presley Experience, (ii) we shall provide and construct the premises or venue for the public presentation of such Elvis Presley Experience and shall be entitled to a rental payment to be negotiated by the parties in good faith, and (iii) we shall each own and share in 50% of the profits and losses of such Elvis Presley Experience. 8 Table of Contents In all cases, if we request that Elvis Presley Enterprises create an Elvis Presley Experience at one of our properties, provided that Elvis Presley Enterprises has the right to do so, it shall use reasonable best efforts to create such Elvis Presley Experience at our requested property. We have been notified by Elvis Presley Enterprises that they are a party to a global agreement with Cirque du Soleil for the creation of Elvis Presley themed projects worldwide, including the development of Elvis Presley Experiences. In the event that Elvis Presley Enterprises develops one or more Elvis Presley Experience(s) with Cirque du Soleil, we have the right to participate for up to 50% of Elvis Presley Enterprises’ economic participation, as described above for projects involving third party collaboration. We also intend to request that Elvis Presley Enterprises and Cirque du Soleil, together with our participation, develop the first Elvis Presley Experience at the Park Central site. We believe that the planned Elvis-themed elements at the site, including our plans with respect to the development of an Elvis Presley Experience on site, and the Cirque du Soleil show at the MGM CityCenter will complement one another and create a focal point for Elvis Presley fans while visiting Las Vegas. Royalty Payments and Minimum Guarantees We are required to pay to Elvis Presley Enterprises an amount equal to 3% of gross revenues generated at any Elvis Presley property (including gross revenues derived from lodging, entertainment attractions, ticket sales, sale of food and beverages, and rental space, but excluding gambling if payment of percentage of gambling royalty revenues would be contrary to law or require Elvis Presley Enterprises to be licensed) and 10% of gross revenues with respect to the sale of site-specific merchandise. In addition, we will pay Elvis Presley Enterprises a set dollar amount per square foot of casino floor space at each Elvis Presley-themed property where percentage royalties are not paid on gambling revenues. We are required to pay a guaranteed minimum royalty payment (against royalties payable for the year in question) to Elvis Presley Enterprises of $9 million in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009, $18 million each of 2010, 2011 and 2012, $22 million in each of 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, and increasing by 5% for each year thereafter. The initial payment (for 2007) under the license agreement, as amended, will be due on the earlier of the completion of the rights offering described elsewhere herein, or April 1, 2008, provided that because the initial payment will be made after December 1, 2007, it shall bear interest at the then current prime rate as quoted in The Wall Street Journal plus 3% per annum between December 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, plus 3.5% per annum from January 1, 2008 through January 31, 2008, plus 4.0% from February 1, 2008 through February 29, 2008, and plus 4.5% from and after March 1, 2008. Beginning on the date of the agreement and ending on the eighth anniversary of the opening of the first Elvis Presley-themed hotel, we have the right to buy out all remaining royalty payment obligations due to Elvis Presley Enterprises under the license agreement by paying Elvis Presley Enterprises $450 million. We would also be required to buy out royalty payments due to Muhammad Ali Enterprises under our license agreement with Muhammad Ali Enterprises discussed below at the same time that we exercise our buyout right under the Elvis Presley Enterprises license agreement. Termination Rights Unless we exercise our buy-out right, either we or Elvis Presley Enterprises will have the right to terminate the license upon the date that is the later of (i) June 1, 2017, or (ii) the date on which our buy-out right expires, which is the eighth anniversary of the opening of the first Elvis Presley-themed hotel. Thereafter, either we or Elvis Presley Enterprises will again have the right to so terminate the license on each tenth anniversary of such date. In the event that we exercise our termination right, then (x) the license agreement between us and Muhammad Ali Enterprises will also terminate and (y) we will pay to Elvis Presley Enterprises a termination fee of $45 million. Upon any termination, the rights granted to us (and the rights granted to any project company to develop an Elvis Presley-themed real estate property) will remain in effect with respect to all Elvis Presley-related real estate properties that are open or under construction at the time of such termination, provided that royalties, but no minimum guarantees, continue to be paid to Elvis Presley Enterprises. Conditional Amendment 9 Table of Contents We have entered into an agreement with 19X to amend the License Agreement between our Company and EPE, which amendment shall only become effective upon the closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX. If and when effective, the amendment to the License Agreement will provide that, if, by the date that is 7 1/2 years following the closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX, EPE has not achieved certain financial thresholds, we will be entitled to a reduction of $50 million against 85% of the payment amounts due under the license agreement, with such reduction taken ratably over the ensuing three year period provided, however, that if we have failed in our obligations to build any hotel to which we had previously committed under the definitive Graceland master plan, then this reduction shall not apply. As described under “—Hotel(s) at Graceland,” the amendment to the License Agreement also provides that we may lose our right to construct the hotel(s) as part of the Graceland master redevelopment plan (i) in the event we approve a master plan (as contemplated under the Option Agreement with 19X) but subsequently fail to deliver a notice within ten days of such approval of our intent to proceed with the hotels contemplated in the master plan or, (ii) in the alternative, if we fail to deliver our notice of intent to proceed in accordance with the definitive master plan within ninety days of presentation of a master plan that 19X has agreed to undertake but which we have not approved. Conditional Option Agreement with 19X We have entered into an Option Agreement with 19X, Inc. pursuant to which, in consideration for annual option payments as described below, we would have the right to acquire an 85% interest in the Elvis Presley business currently owned and operated by CKX, Inc. through its Elvis Presley Enterprises subsidiaries at an escalating price over time as set forth below. Because 19X will only own those rights upon consummation of its pending acquisition of CKX, the effectiveness of the Option Agreement is conditioned upon the closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX. In the event that the merger agreement between 19X and CKX is terminated without consummation or the merger fails to close for any reason, the proposed Option Agreement with 19X will also terminate and thereafter have no force and effect. Upon effectiveness of the proposed Option Agreement, and in consideration for annual option payments described below, we would have the right (but not the obligation) to acquire the 85%-interest in the Elvis Presley business (the “Presley Interests”), structured as follows: • Beginning on the date of closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX and for the ensuing 48 months, we will have the right to acquire the Presley Interests for $650 million. • Beginning 48 months following the date of closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX and for the ensuing six month period, we will have the right to acquire the Presley Interests for $700 million. • Beginning 54 months following the date of closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX and for the ensuing six month period, we will have the right to acquire the Presley Interests for $750 million • Beginning 60 months following the date of closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX and for the ensuing six month period, we will have the right to acquire the Presley Interests for $800 million • Beginning 66 months following the date of closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX and for the ensuing six month period, we will have the right to acquire the Presley Interests for $850 million If, as of the calendar month immediately preceding the sixth anniversary of the date of closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX, EPE has not achieved certain financial thresholds, we will have the right to extend the deadline to exercise our right to acquire the Presley Interests by twelve (12) months. If, as of the calendar month immediately preceding the seventh anniversary of the date of closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX, EPE has still not achieved the financial thresholds, we will have the right to extend the deadline to exercise our right to acquire the Presley Interests an additional six (6) months. If, at the end of such six month extension period, EPE has still not achieved the financial thresholds, we will have the right to either (i) reduce the purchase price for the acquisition by $50 million and proceed with the acquisition, or (ii) elect not to proceed with the acquisition. The total amount of the option payments will be $105 million payable over five years, with each annual payment set forth below payable in four equal cash installments (except as described below) per year: 10 Table of Contents • Year one annual payment — $15 million. • Year two annual payment — $15 million. • Year three annual payment — $20 million. • Year four annual payment — $25 million. • Year five annual payment — $30 million. The first installment for year one’s annual payment shall become due and payable on the later of (i) the closing of 19X’s acquisition of CKX, and (ii) August 15, 2008. The date on which such first installment is paid is referred to as the “Initial Installment Date.” The three remaining installments for year one’s annual payment shall be due on the 90th, 180th and 270th day after the Initial Installment Date. For each subsequent annual payment for years two through five, the first installment will be due on the ensuing anniversary date of the Initial Installment Date and the three remaining installments will be due on the 90th, 180th and 270th day thereafter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during each of the first two years, we can pay up to two installment payments in any twelve month period by delivery of an unsecured promissory note (rather than cash) which shall become due and payable on the earlier of (i) the closing of the acquisition of the Presley Interests, and (ii) the termination of the Option Agreement. The promissory notes shall bear interest at the rate of 10.5% per annum. Pursuant to the Option Agreement, subject to it becoming effective, 19X has made certain representations and warranties regarding the Presley Interests and the Elvis Presley business and has made certain covenants regarding the ownership of the Presley Interests and ownership and operation of the Elvis Presley business during the term of the Option Agreement. 19X is required, upon our request, to annually reaffirm these representations and warranties and covenants to us. Subject to certain limitations, 19X has agreed to indemnify us for breach of such representations and warranties and covenants. In limited and specified circumstances, our obligation to make annual option payments shall cease and 19X shall be obligated to refund certain prior payments. As more fully described under “— Hotel(s) at Graceland,” the Option Agreement also provides that the parties shall work collectively on the master plan for redevelopment of the property surrounding Graceland. Under the Option Agreement, we are not entitled to exercise our right to acquire the Presley Interests without the unanimous approval of the independent directors of our board based upon the recommendation of a special committee of the board composed entirely of independent directors empowered to review and oversee such exercise if such a recommendation of a special committee of independent directors and such approval by the independent directors of the board is advisable under applicable law based upon the advice of our counsel. If we elect to exercise our right to acquire the Presley Interests, the closing of the acquisition will be contingent upon regulatory approval and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. If the Option Agreement becomes effective, we will need to seek financing to fund the annual option payments that are not otherwise payable by delivery of the unsecured promissory notes, as our current cash flow and cash on hand are not sufficient to fund these cash payments. The Presley business, which is currently owned 85% by CKX, Inc. and 15% by the Promenade Trust, consists of entities which own and/or control the commercial utilization of the name, image and likeness of Elvis Presley, the operation of the Graceland museum and related attractions, as well as revenue derived from Elvis Presley’s television specials, films and certain of his recorded musical works, collectively referred to herein as the “Presley Business.” The Presley business consists primarily of two components: first, intellectual property, including the licensing of the name, image, likeness and trademarks associated with Elvis Presley, as well as other owned and/or controlled intellectual property and the collection of royalties from certain motion pictures, television specials and recorded musical works and music compositions; and second, the operation of the Graceland museum and related attractions and retail establishments, including Elvis Presley’s Heartbreak Hotel and other ancillary real estate assets in Memphis, Tennessee. As described under "— Hotel(s) at Graceland” above, Elvis Presley Enterprises has disclosed preliminary plans to redevelop and expand the Graceland attraction, incorporating 104 acres surrounding and contiguous to the Graceland mansion property. The master plan is expected to include a new visitor center, exhibition space, retail, hotel, convention facilities, public open space and parking on both sides of Elvis Presley Boulevard. The Presley business has also announced that it has entered into an exclusive arrangement with Cirque du Soleil for the creation, development, production and promotion of “Elvis Presley Projects,” featuring touring and permanent shows, as well as multimedia interactive “Elvis Experiences,” throughout the world. Elvis Presley Enterprises, together with Cirque Du Soleil, has entered into an agreement with MGM MIRAGE to create a permanent Elvis Presley show at the CityCenter hotel/casino, which is currently under construction in Las Vegas. 11 Table of Contents The show, which is expected to open with the hotel in November 2009, will consist of a creative combination of live musicians and singers, projections, dance and the latest in multimedia sound and lighting technology intended to offer an emotional bond with the audience. Because our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert F.X. Sillerman, is also the Chairman and President of 19X, the Option Agreement and the Amendment to the Elvis Presley Enterprises License Agreement with 19X are deemed affiliated transactions and therefore required the review and oversight of a special committee of our independent directors. A special committee comprised of independent directors Messrs. David M. Ledy and Harvey Silverman was established to review and oversee the transaction. The special committee engaged The Salter Group to serve as its independent financial advisor in connection with the review of the financial terms of the Option Agreement and engaged independent legal counsel to assist in its review and oversight of the transactions. Our board of directors, acting upon the unanimous recommendation of the special committee, has (except for abstentions by directors affiliated with 19X or Elvis Presley Enterprises) unanimously approved the transaction. Muhammad Ali License Agreement Grant of Rights The license agreement with Muhammad Ali Enterprises, which we entered into simultaneously with entering into the Elvis Presley Enterprises license agreement, grants us the right to use Muhammad Ali-related intellectual property in connection with designing, constructing, operating, and promoting Muhammad Ali-themed real estate and attraction based properties, including Muhammad Ali-themed hotels and retreat centers, subject to certain restrictions, including, but not limited to, certain approval rights of Muhammad Ali Enterprises. We currently envision Muhammad Ali retreat centers as retreat locations, incorporating the intellectual property of Muhammad Ali, where groups, companies, and/or organizations can come to focus board and staff members on key issues such as strategic planning, enhancing communication, teamwork, collaboration, problem-solving and creative thinking, all utilizing the ideals of Muhammad Ali to drive and enhance their experience. Under the terms of the license agreement, we have the right to manufacture and sell merchandise relating to each Muhammad Ali property at the applicable property, but Muhammad Ali Enterprises will have final approval over such merchandise that we may sell. While we are continually exploring opportunities to use the Muhammad Ali-related intellectual property as described above, we have no current plans with respect to specific uses of the Muhammad Ali-related intellectual property. Royalty Payments and Minimum Guarantees We are required to pay to Muhammad Ali Enterprises an amount equal to 3% of gross revenues generated at any Muhammad Ali property, including gross revenues derived from lodging, entertainment attractions, ticket sales, sale of food and beverages and rental space, and 10% of gross revenues with respect to the sale of merchandise. We are required to pay a guaranteed annual minimum royalty payment (against royalties payable for the year in question) to Muhammad Ali Enterprises of $1 million in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009, $2 million in each of 2010, 2011 and 2012, $3 million in each of 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 and increasing by 5% for each year thereafter. The initial payment (for 2007) under the license agreement, as amended, will be due on the earlier of the completion of the rights offering described elsewhere herein or April 1, 2008, provided that if the initial payment is made after December 1, 2007, it shall bear interest at the then current prime rate as quoted in The Wall Street Journal plus 3% per annum between December 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, plus 3.5% per annum from January 1, 2008 through January 31, 2008, plus 4.0% from February 1, 2008 through February 29, 2008, and plus 4.5% from and after March 1, 2008. Beginning on the effective date of the license, which is June 1, 2007, and ending on the date that is the eighth anniversary of the opening of the first Elvis Presley-themed hotel, we have the right to buy-out all remaining royalty payment obligations due to Muhammad Ali Enterprises under the license agreement by paying Muhammad Ali Enterprises $50 million. We would be required to buy-out royalty payments due to Elvis Presley Enterprises under the Elvis Presley license agreement at the same time that we exercise our buy-out right under the Muhammad Ali license agreement. Termination Rights Unless we exercise our buy-out right, either we or Muhammad Ali Enterprises will have the right to terminate the license upon the date that is the later of (i) 10 years after the effective date of the license, or (ii) the date on which 12 Table of Contents our buy-out right expires. Thereafter, either we or Muhammad Ali Enterprises will again have the right to so terminate the license on each tenth anniversary of such date. In the event that we exercise our termination right, then (x) the Elvis Presley license agreement will also terminate and (y) we will pay to Muhammad Ali Enterprises a termination fee of $5 million. Upon any termination, the rights granted to us (and the rights granted to any project company to develop a Muhammad Ali-themed real estate property) will remain in effect with respect to all Muhammad Ali-related real estate properties that are open or under construction at the time of such termination, provided that royalties, but no minimum guarantees, continue to be paid to Muhammad Ali Enterprises. The Riviera In addition to our ownership of the Park Central site, through subsidiaries we own 1,410,363 shares of common stock in Riviera Holdings Corporation, which owns and operates the Riviera Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada and the Blackhawk Casino in Blackhawk, Colorado. We acquired 573,775 of these shares on September 26, 2007 as a result of exercising an option in which we owned a 50% beneficial ownership interest to acquire an additional 1,147,550 shares of Riviera Holdings Corporation at a price of $23 per share. Our ownership of 1,410,363 shares of common stock in Riviera Holdings Corporation represents approximately 11.32% of the outstanding common stock of Riviera as of August 3, 2007. On May 16, 2007, we, through a subsidiary, submitted a proposal to the board of directors of Riviera Holdings Corporation to acquire through a merger the remaining outstanding shares of Riviera Holdings Corporation at a price of $34 per share. At that time the board of directors of Riviera Holdings Corporation rejected this offer. We continue to explore an acquisition of Riviera Holdings Corporation with the goal of becoming a multi-property owner and operator in Las Vegas, Nevada. However, we have not entered into any agreements with Riviera Holdings Corporation related to the acquisition of Riviera. Pursuing an acquisition of Riviera Holdings Corporation is independent of our strategy to redevelop the Park Central site. We believe that an acquisition of Riviera Holdings Corporation would provide us with a competitive advantage in Las Vegas as an owner and operator of multiple gaming operations on the strip. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in acquiring Riviera Holdings Corporation. The price per share that we would be willing to pay in an acquisition of Riviera Holdings Corporation would be based on a number of factors, including, without limitation, the then prevailing market price per share of Riviera Holdings Corporation common stock, the assumption or repayment of outstanding indebtedness, if any, of Riviera Holdings Corporation, prevailing market conditions and our ability to finance the acquisition on reasonable terms. The $34 per share merger price that we proposed to the board of directors of Riviera Holdings Corporation in May 2007 is not indicative of the price we would be willing to pay at this time and should not be relied upon in calculating the total capital that could be necessary to consummate such an acquisition. Based on the closing price of Riviera Holdings Corporation’s common stock on March 11, 2008, which was $21.72 per share, Riviera Holdings Corporation has a market capitalization of $270.7 million (or $240.1 million excluding the shares we own). Our ability to consummate an acquisition of Riviera Holdings Corporation is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to raise the financing necessary to pay for such an acquisition. Regulation and Licensing Hospitality Our proposed businesses will be subject to numerous laws, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, such as health and liquor license laws. Our proposed businesses will also be subject to laws governing employees in our proposed hotels in such areas as minimum wage and maximum working hours, overtime, working conditions, hiring and firing employees and work permits. Also, our ability to implement our proposed hotel projects may be dependent upon our obtaining necessary building permits or zoning variances from local authorities. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, all public accommodations are required to meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. Although we expect to invest significant amounts to ensure that our hotels comply with ADA requirements, a determination that our hotels are not in compliance with the ADA could result in a judicial order requiring compliance, imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. We intend to be in compliance in all material respects with all statutory and administrative government regulations with respect to our proposed business when we become subject to such requirements. 13 Table of Contents Our proposed hotel properties and current commercial leasing activities of the Park Central site could expose us to environmental liabilities, including liabilities related to activities that predated our acquisition or operation of a property. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at the property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damages and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Environmental liability can be incurred by a current owner or operator of a property for environmental problems or violations that occurred on a property prior to acquisition or operation. These laws and regulations often impose cleanup responsibility and liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The liability under environmental laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. The owner or operator of a site may be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. Gaming Nevada Introduction The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act (the “Nevada Act”) and the regulations made under such Act, as well as various local ordinances. Once the hotel is open, the operations of our proposed casino on the Park Central site will be subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the “Nevada Gaming Commission”), the Nevada State Gaming Control Board (the “Nevada Board”) and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board (the “Clark County Board”), which we refer to collectively as the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Policy Concerns of Gaming Laws The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. These public policy concerns include, among other things: • preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity; • establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; • maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs, and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities; • preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and • providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees. Changes in these laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our proposed Park Central site casino’s proposed gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations. Owner and Operator Licensing Requirements Before we can open our proposed casino on the Park Central site, we will be required to seek approval from and be licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities as a company licensee. We would also be required to seek and obtain a similar approval in connection with an acquisition of Riviera Holdings Corporation. The licensing process consists of submitting a detailed application and undergoing a thorough investigation by the Nevada Gaming Authorities of the company and its key employees. As applicant, we would be required to pay all costs of investigation, and the Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for licensing for any reason they deem reasonable. 14 Table of Contents If granted, the gaming license will not be transferable and may be conditioned or restricted. The requirements to maintain the gaming license include compliance with any conditions or restrictions placed on the gaming license, the payment of applicable fees and the periodic submission of detailed reports to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all approvals and licenses from the Nevada Gaming Authorities on a timely basis or at all. In the event that our key executives fail to obtain the required gaming licenses, their employment with us would be terminated and we would no longer have access to their experience and expertise. Company Registration Requirements Before we can open our proposed casino on the Park Central site, we will be required to be registered by the Nevada Commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for purposes of the Nevada Act. We will also be required to seek such a registration in connection with an acquisition of Riviera Holdings Corporation. Once we obtain such registrations, we will be required to maintain a current ledger of the ownership of all shares of the company and provide detailed information as to the ownership, management and financial position of the company, or any other information the Nevada Commission may require. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may make such investigation of the company or any of its officers, directors, securities holders or any other persons associated therewith as it deems necessary, and the Nevada Commission may deny an order of registration for any reason it deems reasonable. We cannot assure you that we can obtain an order of registration from the Nevada Commission on a timely basis or at all. We will be required to maintain and periodically submit detailed ownership, financial and operating reports to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and to provide any other information that the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require. Substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, or approved by, the Nevada Commission. Individual Licensing Requirements Before becoming a stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee, such person may be required to first obtain licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to, or material involvement with, us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. Our officers, directors and certain key employees will be required to file applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for licensing for any cause which they deem reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. An applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay for all the costs of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada. Redemption or Mandatory Sale of Securities Owned By an Unsuitable Person Our certificate of incorporation provides that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by our board of directors, we may redeem shares of our capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. The redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. If we determine the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading date on the day before the redemption notice is 15 Table of Contents given. If the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on an inter-dealer quotation system, or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and asked prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as we elect. In the event our board of directors determines that such a redemption would adversely affect us, we shall require such person and/or its affiliates to sell the shares of our capital stock subject to the redemption. Consequences of Violating Gaming Laws If the Nevada Commission decides that we violated the Nevada Act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. In addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Act, or of the regulations of the Nevada Commission, at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further, the Nevada Commission could appoint a supervisor to operate our proposed casino and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor’s appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations. Requirements for Equity Security Holders Regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of the voting or non-voting securities of a registered company may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person’s suitability as a beneficial owner of such securities determined if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe that the ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the beneficial owner of such securities who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. The applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any investigation. The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission. The Nevada Act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company’s voting securities to apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an “institutional investor,” as defined in the Nevada Act, which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of the registered company’s voting securities may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. An institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may, in certain circumstances, own up to 19% of the voting securities of a registered company for a limited period of time and maintain the waiver. An institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting securities for investment purposes only. Activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: • voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders; • making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in its management, policies or operations; and • other activities that the Nevada Gaming Commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. Our certificate of incorporation includes provisions intended to help us implement the above restrictions. We will be required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada which may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be 16 Table of Contents required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. We will be required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of our voting securities. The Nevada Commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the Nevada Act. We do not know whether this requirement will be imposed on us. Consequences of Being Found Unsuitable Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission or by the Chairman of the Nevada Board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any equity security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with, we: • pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; • allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to our company; • pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or • fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person’s voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. Requirements for Debt Security Holders The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt or similar securities of a registered company to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the Nevada Commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the Nevada Act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission, it: • pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever; • recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities; • pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or • makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. Approval of Public Offerings A registered company may not make a public offering of its securities without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Authorities if it intends to use the proceeds from the offering to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. Once we become a registered company, any approval that we might receive in the future relating to future offerings will not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the Nevada Board or the Nevada Commission as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.. By regulation, the Nevada Gaming Authorities consider all relevant material facts in determining whether to grant an approval of public offerings. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may further consider not only the effects of the 17 Table of Contents action or approval requested by the applicant, but whatever other facts are deemed relevant, including but not limited to the following: • The business history of the applicant, including its record of financial stability, integrity, and success of its operations. • The current business activities and interest of the applicant, as well as those of its executive officers, promoters, lenders, and other sources of financing, or any other individuals associated therewith. • The current financial structure of the applicant, as well as changes which could reasonably be anticipated to occur to such financial structure as a consequence of the proposed action of the applicant. • The gaming-related goals and objectives of the applicant, including a description of the plans and strategy for achieving such goals and objectives. • The adequacy of the proposed financing or other action to achieve the announced goals and objectives. • The equity investment, commitment or contribution of present or prospective directors, officers, principal employees, investors, lenders, or other sources of financing. To avoid delays which might otherwise be occasioned by investigative, analytical or other processing time, prior approval is typically sought through a Shelf Approval process. Shelf Approvals are obtained by submitting an application to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and are generally subject to certain restrictions. Such restrictions may include a limited life for the Shelf Approval, the ability of the Nevada Gaming Authorities to rescind the approval for good cause shown, restrictions on the ability to encumber gaming subsidiaries and approval for gaming subsidiaries to guarantee performance of obligations evidenced by a security. We cannot assure you that we can obtain approval of a shelf registration or any other registration in a timely manner, or at all. Neither can we assure you what restrictions may be placed on any future application for approval of a sale of our securities. The regulations of the Nevada Commission also provide that any entity which is not an “affiliated company,” as that term is defined in the Nevada Act, or which is not otherwise subject to the provisions of the Nevada Act or regulations, such as us, that plans to make a public offering of securities intending to use such securities, or the proceeds from the sale thereof, for the construction or operation of gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for such purposes, may apply to the Nevada Commission for prior approval of such offering. The Nevada Commission may find an applicant unsuitable based solely on the fact that it did not submit such an application, unless upon a written request for a ruling, referred to as a Ruling Request, the Nevada Board Chairman has ruled that it is not necessary to submit an application. Approval of Changes in Control Registered companies are required to obtain prior approval of the Nevada Commission with respect to a change in control through: • consolidation; • stock or asset acquisitions; • management or consulting agreements; or • any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of us. Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada Commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. The Nevada Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. 18 Table of Contents Approval of Defensive Tactics The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchase of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming licenses, and registered companies that are affiliated with those operations, may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming industry and to further Nevada’s policy to: • assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates; • preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and • promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. Approvals may be required from the Nevada Commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above their current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company’s board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control. Fees and Taxes License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries respective operations are conducted. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable either monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon either: • a percentage of the gross revenue received; • the number of gaming devices operated; or • the number of table games operated. A live entertainment tax is also paid by casino operators where entertainment is furnished in connection with admission fees, the selling or serving of food or refreshments or the selling of merchandise. While we expect these fees and taxes to be significant, until we have an operating gaming facility it is impossible for us to determine with any specificity the impact such fees and taxes will have on our revenues. Foreign Gaming Investigations Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered, or is under common control with those persons, collectively referred to herein as licensees, and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the Nevada Board of the licensee’s or registrant’s participation in such foreign gaming. We may be subject to these investigations in the event that we acquire or construct a gaming facility in a jurisdiction outside of Nevada. For example, in the event that we acquire control of the Riviera, we would become the owners of the Blackhawk Casino in Blackhawk, Colorado, thereby making us subject to these provisions. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease in the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Licensees and registrants are required to comply with the reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada Act. A licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if it: • knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; • fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations; • engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada; 19 Table of Contents • engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or • employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of unsuitability. License for Conduct of Gaming and Sale of Alcoholic Beverages The conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at the casino on the Park Central site will be subject to licensing, control and regulation by the Clark County Board. In addition to approving our company, the Clark County Board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any business entity controlling a gaming or liquor license. All licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The Clark County Board has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. Any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations. Competition Las Vegas is the largest gaming market in the United States and is also one of the fastest growing leisure, lodging and entertainment markets in the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Las Vegas gaming and hotel markets continued their upward trends with, among other things, a 0.9% increase in visitation to 38.9 million visitors, a 10.9% increase in Las Vegas Strip gaming revenue and a 16.0% increase in average daily room rates, all as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. Many properties on the Las Vegas Strip have opened over the past ten years, including the Wynn, the Bellagio, Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino, the Palazzo, Paris Las Vegas, Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino and The Venetian. In addition, a number of existing properties on the Las Vegas Strip embarked on expansions during this period, including the Bellagio, the Luxor Hotel and Casino, Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino and Caesars Palace. Each of these properties incorporates a variety of commercial elements, including but not limited to hotel, casino, retail, entertainment and restaurant operations. As a result, the casino/hotel industry in Las Vegas is highly competitive across a broad array of categories. The Park Central site is located on the Las Vegas Strip and is anticipated to compete in each of the aforementioned categories with these and other luxury-oriented properties. The Park Central site will also compete, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and Atlantic City, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on Native American lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries, and other forms of gaming. The continued proliferation of Native American gaming in California and elsewhere could have a negative impact on our operations. In particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers, could have a negative effect on our business. In addition, new or renovated casinos in Macau or elsewhere in Asia could draw Asian gaming customers, including high-rollers, away from Las Vegas. In addition to the existing casinos with which the Park Central site is anticipated to compete, several new resorts are expected to open on or near the Las Vegas Strip before 2011, each of which is expected to include a variety of commercial elements, including but not limited to hotel, casino, retail, entertainment and restaurant operations. The major projects, which have either been announced or are currently under construction include, but are not limited to: • Echelon Place — an approximately $4.0 billion development by Boyd Gaming located north of the Park Central site on the Las Vegas Strip. • City Center — an approximately $7.8 billion development by MGM Mirage located directly across the street from the Park Central site. • Cosmopolitan — an approximately $3 billion development by Condo Hotel Company currently under construction located north of the Park Central site on the northwest corner of Harmon Avenue and the Las Vegas Strip. History of Our Company On January 10, 2008, we became a publicly traded company as a result of the completion of the distribution of 19,743,349 shares of our common stock to CKX’s stockholders. We refer to this distribution as the “CKX Distribution.” Set forth below is a summary of our history, including certain transactions undertaken by our founders, CKX and Flag Luxury Properties, to effectuate the CKX Distribution. For a further description of our 20 Table of Contents history, please see generally Note 2 (Organization and Background) to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. FX Luxury Realty, LLC was formed on April 13, 2007. On May 11, 2007, Flag Luxury Properties, LLC, a real estate development company in which Robert F.X. Sillerman beneficially owns an approximate 29.3% equity interest, contributed all of its direct and indirect membership interests in the Metroflag entities, which directly and indirectly then owned 50% of the Park Central site, to FX Luxury Realty in exchange for membership interests therein. Following these contributions, FX Luxury Realty was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Flag Luxury Properties. The contributed Metroflag interests included a 25% ownership interest in Metroflag previously owned by affiliates of Brett Torino, which interest was previously contributed to Flag Luxury Properties by affiliates of Brett Torino in exchange for membership interests in Flag Luxury Properties. On June 1, 2007, Flag Leisure Group, LLC, a company in which Robert F.X. Sillerman and Paul C. Kanavos each beneficially own an approximate 33% interest and which is the managing member of Flag Luxury Properties, sold to FX Luxury Realty all of its membership interests in RH1, LLC, which owns an aggregate of 418,294 shares of Riviera Holdings Corporation. On such date, Flag Luxury Properties also sold to FX Luxury Realty all of its membership interests in Flag Luxury Riv, LLC, which owns an additional 418,294 shares of Riviera Holdings Corporation. With the purchase of these membership interests, FX Luxury Realty acquired a 50% beneficial ownership interest in an option to acquire an additional 1,147,500 shares of Riviera Holdings Corporation at $23 per share. On June 1, 2007, CKX, a company in which Mr. Sillerman beneficially owns approximately 31% of the outstanding shares of common stock, entered into and consummated agreements pursuant to which (i) CKX, through its subsidiaries Elvis Presley Enterprises (an 85%-owned subsidiary of CKX) and Muhammad Ali Enterprises (an 80%-owned subsidiary of CKX), granted licenses to FX Luxury Realty, and (ii) CKX invested $100 million in FX Luxury Realty in exchange for 50% of its outstanding common membership interests. CKX simultaneously entered into an agreement pursuant to which Mr. Sillerman, together with Simon R. Fuller, a director of CKX and the Chief Executive Officer of CKX’s subsidiary, 19 Entertainment Limited, will acquire and take CKX private in a merger transaction. The board of directors of CKX, upon the recommendations of its special committee, approved each of these transactions on the condition that CKX distribute to its stockholders one-half of the equity it purchased in FX Luxury Realty through a distribution of shares of our common stock to allow current CKX stockholders to share directly in the continued growth and exploitation of the existing Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali intellectual property rights and assets in the capital intensive development opportunities to be pursued by us in accordance with the terms of the license agreements with certain subsidiaries of CKX. A registration statement was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to effect the CKX Distribution. On July 6, 2007, pursuant to an agreement entered into on May 30, 2007 just prior to CKX’s investment in FX Luxury Realty, FX Luxury Realty purchased from a third party the remaining 50% of the entities that collectively own the Park Central site, for $180 million, which was paid in cash from borrowings and cash on hand. As a result of this acquisition and completion of the reorganization described below we own, through our subsidiaries, the entirety of the Park Central site. On September 26, 2007, CKX together with the other members of FX Luxury Realty LLC exchanged all of their common membership interests in FX Luxury Realty for shares of common stock of FX Real Estate and Entertainment. We refer to this exchange herein as the “reorganization.” Immediately following the reorganization, also on September 26, 2007, CKX acquired an additional $1.5 million of our common stock, and Flag Luxury Properties acquired an additional $0.5 million of our common stock, the pricing for which was based on the same valuation used at the time of CKX’s initial investment in FX Luxury Realty in June 2007. On November 30, 2007, Flag Luxury Properties LLC distributed all of its shares of our common stock, representing 49.75% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock, to its members, including Messrs. Sillerman and Kanavos, and certain of its employees. 21 Table of Contents On January 10, 2008, CKX together with three trusts established for the benefit of its stockholders delivered to each stockholder of CKX two shares of our common stock for every ten shares of CKX common or preferred stock held by such stockholder pursuant to the CKX Distribution. Intellectual Property We intend to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, rights of publicity, and other laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. With respect to applications to register trademarks that have not yet been accepted, we cannot assure you that such applications to register trademarks that have not yet been accepted, we cannot assure you that such applications will be approved. Third parties may oppose the trademark applications, seek to cancel existing registrations or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. If they are successful, we could be forced to re-brand our products and services, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in one country as in another. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to our license agreements with subsidiaries of CKX, we have the right to use intellectual property or certain other proprietary rights related to Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali that are owned or controlled by, or licensed to such CKX subsidiaries, including, without limitation, certain trademarks owned in connection with the design, construction, operation, advertising and promotion of certain real estate properties and the design, manufacture, sale and promotion of themed merchandise. If we wish to (i) use the trademarks in connection with the design, construction, operation and promotion of properties or attractions or the design, manufacture, sale, and promotion of related merchandise, in each case, outside the countries and product classes in which the trademarks are presently registered or where applications for registrations are pending, or (ii) use the trademarks in connection with products or services for which they have not been registered, we may request that the relevant CKX subsidiary register the trademark(s) in such territory or for such products or services and such CKX subsidiary will file, at its sole costs and expense, an application for registration of the applicable trademark(s) in the requested territory or product class and will take all other actions that are reasonably necessary to pursue such applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each CKX subsidiary may refuse to file a new application for good cause. With respect to other Elvis Presley or Muhammad Ali-related trademarks that are not owned by such CKX subsidiaries, or similar thereto or derivative thereof, and that we adopt for use in connection with a themed property in accordance with the license agreements, we have the right to own such trademarks and file such applications and registrations for use solely in connection with hotel and casino services (but not gaming or gambling equipment or products), in the case of Elvis Presley related trademarks, and lodging property services in the case of Muhammad Ali-related trademarks. In February 2005, CKX acquired 85% of Elvis Presley Enterprises Inc. and 85% of Elvis Presley Enterprises, LLC, which together own the name, image, likeness, certain trademarks and other intellectual property related to Elvis Presley. The Presley acquisition was effected pursuant to an agreement with The Promenade Trust, whose sole beneficiary is Lisa Marie Presley. The Trust historically directly owned and operated the assets and businesses of Elvis Presley which existed at the time of his death and owned and operated the businesses and assets acquired and/or created after Elvis’ death through its ownership of 100% of Elvis Presley Enterprises, Inc. Prior to consummation of the Presley Acquisition, the Trust contributed the Presley assets and businesses not owned by Elvis Presley Enterprises Inc. to a newly formed Tennessee limited liability company, Elvis Presley Enterprises, LLC. As a result of the acquisition of Elvis Presley Enterprises, Inc. and Elvis Presley Enterprises LLC as described above, CKX succeeded to ownership and control of the intellectual property held in such companies. In April 2006, CKX acquired from Muhammad Ali an 80%-interest in the name, image, likeness and all other rights of publicity of Muhammad Ali, certain trademarks owned by Mr. Ali and his affiliates and the rights to all existing Ali license agreements. CKX contributed these assets to, and operates the Muhammad Ali business through, Muhammad Ali Enterprises, LLC, which was formerly named G.O.A.T. LLC. Our rights to the Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali-related intellectual property are only those as are specifically set forth in the respective license agreements. We may only exploit such intellectual property in the categories and in the manners specifically provided for in the agreements. Elvis Presley Enterprises and Muhammad Ali Enterprises exploit their intellectual property in numerous commercial categories to which we have no right. We do not participate in any way in such commercial exploitations nor can we prevent such uses. 22 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2007, the Company had a total of 17 full-time employees. Management considers its relations with its employees to be good. Company Organization The principal executive office of the Company is located at 650 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022 and our telephone number is (212) 838-3100. Available Information The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act and electronically files reports and other information with, and electronically furnishes reports and other information to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such reports and other information filed or furnished by the Company may be inspected and copied at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The address of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website is http://www.sec.gov. In addition, the Company makes available free of charge through its website, www.fxree.com, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. This reference to our Internet website does not constitute incorporation by reference in this report of the information contained on or hyperlinked from our Internet website and such information should not be considered part of this report. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe are material to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Business Our current cash flow is not sufficient to meet our current obligations and we will need to obtain additional financing. Our current cash flow and cash on hand is not sufficient to fund our current operations or to pay obligations that come due over the next six months, including paying the minimum annual guaranteed license fees under our Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali-related license agreements, which aggregate $10 million and are due on April 1, 2008, and our $475 million Park Central Loan, which matures on July 6, 2008, subject to our conditional right to extend the maturity date for up to two additional six month periods as discussed elsewhere herein. We anticipate that the initial six month extension will require us to deposit approximately $50 million into reserve accounts. Our current cash flow is also insufficient to implement our current business plan and strategy, including the redevelopment of the Park Central site and the development and construction of the Graceland-based hotel(s). In addition, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our future cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes. As a result, we will need to secure substantial capital through debt and/or equity financings in order to pay our existing obligations as they come due, including the payment of fees under our license agreements with subsidiaries of CKX, to fund the redevelopment of the Park Central site and the development of the Graceland-based hotel(s) and otherwise implement our business strategy. Our plans regarding the size, scope and phasing of the redevelopment of the Park Central site may change as we formulate and finalize our development plans. These changes may impact the timing and cost of the redevelopment. Based on preliminary budgets, management estimates total construction costs of the current plan to be approximately $3.1 billion (exclusive of land cost, capitalized interest expense and related financing and other pre-opening costs). Our management has not yet estimated the costs for development and construction of the Graceland-based hotel(s), but expects these costs to be significant. We may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures due to our limited cash flow, which may affect our financial condition. We are highly leveraged and we may have difficulty obtaining additional financing. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2007, we have $512.7 million in total consolidated indebtedness. Due to the fact that we are currently highly leveraged and will require substantial capital to implement our business plan, there are no guarantees that we will be able to secure such additional financing on terms that are favorable to our business or at all. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for stockholders. For example: • It may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our existing credit facilities and our other indebtedness and contractual and commercial commitments, including the payment of fees under our license agreements with subsidiaries of CKX, and, if we fail to comply with requirements, an event of default could occur under our debt instruments and our license agreements; • We will be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our future indebtedness, which may require us to reduce funds available for other purposes; • We may have a limited ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, to fund additional projects, working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service, general corporate or other obligations; • Our substantial indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • We may be placed at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged. 24 Table of Contents The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to continue as a going concern. Even if we are able to raise additional financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to us or disadvantageous to our existing stockholders. Even if we are able to raise additional cash or obtain financing through the public or private sale of debt or equity securities, funding from joint-venture or strategic partners, debt financing or short-term loans, the terms of such transactions may be unduly expensive or burdensome to us or disadvantageous to our existing stockholders. For example, we may be forced to sell or issue our securities at a price below the subscription price for the shares of our common stock offered hereby, at significant discounts to market, or pursuant to onerous terms and conditions, including the issuance of preferred stock with disadvantageous dividend, voting or veto, board membership, conversion, redemption or liquidation provisions; the issuance of convertible debt with disadvantageous interest rates and conversion features; the issuance of warrants with cashless exercise features; the issuance of securities with anti-dilution provisions; the issuance of high-yield securities and bank debt with restrictive covenants and security packages; and the grant of registration rights with significant penalties for the failure to quickly register. If we raise debt financing, we may be required to secure the financing with all of our business assets, which could be sold or retained by the creditor should we default in our payment obligations. Failure to comply with the terms of our secured credit facilities may lead to acceleration of indebtedness and foreclosure on the collateral securing our indebtedness, including the Park Central site. Our credit facilities are secured by certain of our real property and impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of the covenants contained in our secured credit facilities or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in the lenders accelerating our payment obligations under these secured credit facilities or an event of default, which would allow the lenders to foreclose on the liens on certain of the real property or other assets securing the credit facilities, including the Park Central site. We would not be able to pay the amounts owed under the credit facilities if our obligations thereunder were accelerated by the lender and we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance any such indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our independent registered public accounting firm has rendered a report expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report dated March 3, 2008 in connection with the audit of the consolidated financial statements of FX Real Estate and Entertainment Inc. as of December 31, 2007 and for the period from May 11, 2007 through December 31, 2007 that includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern due to our need to secure additional capital in order to pay obligations as they become due. Whether or not the rights offering is successful or Mr. Sillerman and The Huff Alternative Fund, L.P. backstop the rights offering, if we are not able to obtain additional debt and/or equity financing or fail to implement our proposed development projects, then we may not be able to continue as a going concern and you could lose all of the value of our common stock. Because the historical financial statements and financial information of our predecessors are not representative of our business plans going forward or indicative of our planned future operating and financial results, they should not be relied upon. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes historical financial statements of our predecessors based on their historical businesses and operations. Our predecessors’ derived revenue primarily from commercial leasing activities on the properties comprising the Park Central site. Due to the fact that our business plan going forward involves a phased redevelopment of the Park Central site, we will cease engaging in these commercial leasing activities as our development projects are implemented. As such, the historical financial statements of our predecessors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not representative of our planned business going forward or indicative of our future operating and financial results. These financial statements should not be relied upon by you to evaluate our business and financial condition going forward. 25 Table of Contents We have no operating history with respect to our proposed business, so it will be difficult for investors to predict our future success. We were incorporated on June 15, 2007 and have no significant existing operations or history operating our proposed business as an integrated company. Members of our senior management have limited experience with the construction and operation of hotels and other real estate projects of the magnitude contemplated by our business plan. In addition, several members of our senior management have no experience in the gaming industry. Furthermore, we have no development agreements or gaming licenses to operate our proposed business. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully implement our proposed business plan. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we will encounter as a company with no operating history and senior management with limited experience in our proposed business. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and difficulties, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our operations will be subject to the significant business, economic, regulatory and competitive uncertainties and contingencies frequently encountered by new businesses in competitive environments, many of which are beyond our control. Because we have no operating history in our proposed business, it may be more difficult for us to prepare for and respond to these types of risks and the risks described under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K than for a company with an established business and operating cash flow. Our failure to manage these risks successfully could negatively impact our operations. Because we may be entirely dependent upon a limited number of properties for all of our cash flow, we will be subject to greater risks than a company with more operating properties. We expect to have a limited number of material assets or operations. As a result, we likely will be entirely dependent upon the Park Central site and the first of the Graceland hotel(s) for all of our cash flow for the foreseeable future. Neither the Park Central site nor the Graceland hotel(s) will generate any significant revenue for us until development thereof is at least partially completed and operating, which is not expected until the fourth quarter of 2012 for the Park Central site and an as of yet to be projected date for the first Graceland hotel. Given that our operations initially will primarily focus on the properties in Las Vegas and Memphis, we will be subject to greater degrees of risk than a company with multiple operating properties. The risks to which we will have a greater degree of exposure include the following: • local economic and competitive conditions; • worker shortages; • inaccessibility due to inclement weather, road construction or closure of primary access routes; • changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; • natural and other disasters; • an increase in the cost of electrical power, particularly for Las Vegas as a result of, among other things, power shortages in California or other western states with which Nevada shares a single regional power grid; • water shortages in Las Vegas as a result of, among other things, population growth in Southern Nevada; • a decline in the number of visitors; and • a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities in general. Any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our operating needs and to make payments on or refinance our debt and borrowings under our credit facilities or to make payments under our license agreements with certain subsidiaries of CKX. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent upon the continued popularity of Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali and attractions featuring their names, images and likenesses which may, over time, decline in popularity. We will rely substantially upon the continued popularity of Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali and the market for attractions and venues that exploit their names, images and likenesses. Any tarnishing of the public image of Elvis Presley or Muhammad Ali could materially negatively impact our business and results of operations. Because CKX owns and controls the names, images and likenesses of Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali, their continued popularity could be materially impacted by the manner in which CKX operates its businesses with respect thereto, including in seeking out third parties to whom to license the rights to use such names, images, likenesses and other related intellectual property. Moreover, as the life, times and achievements of Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali grow more distant in our past, their popularity may decline. If the public were to lose interest in either Elvis Presley or Muhammad Ali or form a negative impression of them, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The concentration of ownership of our capital stock with our affiliates will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. After giving effect to the rights offering described elsewhere herein (assuming full subscription by such individuals of the rights received in the rights offering but giving no effect to the related investment agreements described elsewhere herein), Robert F.X. Sillerman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Paul C. Kanavos, our President, will beneficially own approximately 29.9% and 11.6% of our outstanding capital stock, respectively and our executive officers and directors together will beneficially own approximately 58.5% of our outstanding capital stock. Our affiliates, officers and directors therefore have the ability to influence our management and affairs and the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, approval of any equity-based employee compensation plan and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result of this concentrated control, unaffiliated stockholders of us do not have the ability to meaningfully influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our unaffiliated stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with 19X, CKX and their respective affiliates, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. There are conflicts of interest in our current and ongoing relationship with 19X, CKX and their respective affiliates. These conflicts include: • We are party to a shared services agreement with CKX pursuant to which employees of each company, including members of senior management, provide services for each other; • We are also party to two license agreements with subsidiaries of CKX related to our right to use certain Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali intellectual property; and • We maintain a $7 million line of credit with CKX of which $6 million of principal and $0.2 million of interest was outstanding as of December 31, 2007. • We have entered into the conditional option agreement with 19X which, if and when effective, will give us an option to acquire an 85% interest in the Elvis Presley business. Because the 85% interest in question is owned by CKX, the option agreement will only become effective upon the consummation of the acquisition of CKX by 19X. Because of the leverage that 19X, CKX and their respective affiliates have in negotiating with us, these agreements may not be as beneficial to our stockholders as they would be if they were negotiated at arms’ length and we cannot guarantee that future arrangements with such parties will be negotiated at arms’ length. For additional information concerning these agreements, please see generally the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with Flag Luxury Properties and its affiliates, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. 27 Table of Contents There are conflicts of interest in our current and ongoing relationship with Flag Luxury Properties and its affiliates. These conflicts include: • Certain of our employees, including Mr. Kanavos, our President, are permitted to devote a portion of their time to providing services for or on behalf of Flag Luxury Properties. • Flag Luxury Properties holds a $45 million priority preferred distribution right in FX Luxury Realty which entitles it to receive an aggregate amount of $45 million (together with an accrued priority return of $0.6 million as of December 31, 2007) prior to any distributions of cash by FX Luxury Realty from the proceeds of certain predefined capital transactions. Until the preferred distribution is paid in full, we are required to use the proceeds of certain predefined capital transactions to pay the amount then owed to Flag Luxury Properties, including the payment of $30 million out of the proceeds of the rights offering and, if applicable, the related investment agreements described elsewhere herein. Because of the leverage that Flag Luxury Properties has in negotiating with us, these agreements may not be as beneficial to our stockholders as they would be if they were negotiated at arms’ length and we cannot guarantee that future arrangements with Flag Luxury Properties will be negotiated at arms’ length. For additional information concerning these agreements, please see generally the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have potential business conflicts with certain of our executive officers because of their relationships with CKX, 19X and/or Flag Luxury Properties and their ability to pursue business activities for themselves and others that may compete with our business activities. Potential business conflicts exist between us and certain of our executive officers, including Messrs. Sillerman and Kanavos, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • Mr. Sillerman’s cross-ownership and dual management responsibilities relating to CKX, 19X, Flag Luxury Properties and us; • Mr. Sillerman will benefit if the value of our common stock appreciates during the applicable measurement period under the CKX-19X merger agreement because his affiliate, 19X, will pay less cash merger consideration per share to the CKX stockholders in the acquisition of CKX by 19X. The cash merger consideration to be paid for the acquisition of CKX by 19X will be reduced by no less than $0.75 per share regardless of the trading value of our common stock if we complete the rights offering at the $10.00 per share price and for total proceeds of not less than $90 million; • Mr. Kanavos’ cross-ownership and dual management responsibilities relating to Flag Luxury Properties and us; • Employment agreements with certain of our executive officers specifically provide that a certain percentage of their business activities may be devoted to Flag Luxury Properties, CKX or 19X; • Messrs. Sillerman and Kanavos will be entitled to receive their pro rata participation, based on their ownership in Flag Luxury Properties, of the $45 million priority distribution of cash from the proceeds of certain predefined capital transactions when received by Flag Luxury Properties; • Mr. Sillerman’s involvement in decisions related to which properties incorporate the CKX intellectual property and therefore require license payments under our license agreements with CKX subsidiaries; and • If the option agreement with 19X becomes effective, Mr. Sillerman’s continued involvement in 19X’s oversight of the Elvis Presley business during the pendancy of and prior to our exercise of our option to acquire the Elvis Presley business. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with these executive officers. Even if we do so, however, because of their ownership interest in us, these executive officers will have leverage with negotiations over their 28 Table of Contents performance that may result in a resolution of such conflicts that may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with another third party. We have entered into a number of related party transactions with CKX and Flag Luxury Properties and their affiliates and may do so in the future, on terms that some stockholders may consider not to be in their best interests. We are a party to a shared services agreement with CKX, pursuant to which employees for each company, including management level employees, provide services for the other company. In addition, certain of our employees, including Mr. Kanavos, our President, and Mitchell J. Nelson, our General Counsel, are permitted to devote a portion of their time providing services for or on behalf of Flag Luxury Properties. We have also entered into licensing agreements with two subsidiaries of CKX pursuant to which we are required to pay to such CKX subsidiaries a percentage of the net proceeds generated at our projects that incorporate the licensed intellectual property (in excess of annual guaranteed amounts). CKX, as a company subject to the rules of The NASDAQ Global Market, is subject to certain rules regarding “affiliated” transactions, including the requirement that all affiliated transactions be approved by a majority of the independent members of the board of directors. Based on Mr. Sillerman’s ownership interests in Flag Luxury Properties, the June 2007 transactions between CKX, Flag Luxury Properties and our company were deemed “affiliated” and therefore subject to the procedural requirements related to such transactions. Because we were a private company at the time we entered into these transactions, and Flag Luxury Properties remains a private company, and not subject to affiliated and related party transaction restrictions, neither Flag Luxury Properties nor our company was represented by a special committee or any independent financial advisor in the negotiation and review of the transactions with CKX. As such, the fairness of the transactions between CKX, Flag Luxury Properties and FX Luxury Realty, from the point of view of Flag Luxury Properties and our company, was determined by management of Flag Luxury Properties, including Messrs. Sillerman and Kanavos, each of whom has numerous conflicting interests relating to their cross-ownership and managerial roles in the various entities. Based on these conflicting interests, some stockholders may not consider these transactions to have been in the best interest of our stockholders. Our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to protect our business. Our business is highly dependent upon the licensing of certain intellectual property rights, including the rights to the names, images, and likenesses of Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali. We have secured the right to use the name, image, and likeness of Elvis Presley for certain purposes pursuant to a licensing agreement with Elvis Presley Enterprises, Inc., a subsidiary of CKX, and the rights to use the name, image and likeness of Muhammad Ali for certain purposes pursuant to a license agreement with Muhammad Ali Enterprises LLC, also a subsidiary of CKX. If we violate the terms of either license agreement, including if we fail to pay the license fees when due under the license agreements, or the license agreements are terminated or we otherwise lose the right to use the name, image, and likeness of Elvis Presley or Muhammad Ali, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. In addition, we are highly dependent on CKX to protect the intellectual property rights associated with the names, images and likenesses of Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali. If CKX does not or cannot protect these intellectual property rights against infringement or misappropriation by third parties (whether for legal reasons or for business reasons relating, for example, to the cost of litigation), our business may be materially adversely affected. If we lose the services of our key personnel, including Robert F.X. Sillerman, Paul Kanavos, Barry Shier and certain other executives of CKX, our business would suffer. Our performance is dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers, including Robert F.X. Sillerman, Paul Kanavos and Barry Shier, with whom we have employment agreements, and certain other executives of CKX, including Thomas P. Benson, the Chief Financial Officer of CKX, who provide services to us pursuant to the shared services agreement between us and CKX. Under the employment agreements with Messrs. Sillerman, Kanavos and Benson, they will be required to devote not less than one-half, two-thirds and two-thirds of their business related time to our company, respectively. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect our business. 29 Table of Contents The termination of the shared services agreement with CKX could materially adversely affect our business. Our shared services agreement with CKX can be terminated by us or CKX, in the event that the independent directors of either company determine that the terms of the shared services agreement no longer evidences arms’ length terms or meet the standards of such company for affiliated transactions. The termination of the shared services agreement with CKX could adversely affect our business because we would lose access to certain employees of CKX and we would be forced to replace their services with either newly retained employees or consultants on terms that may be less favorable than the shared services agreement. Under such circumstances, any delay in the provision of these services could adversely affect our business. Our business may be harmed if we are not able to hire and retain enough additional management and other personnel to manage our growth. We will need to attract, hire and retain talented management and other highly skilled employees with experience and expertise in all areas of our business to be successful. Competition for employees in the hotel, casino and entertainment industry is highly competitive. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. If we are not able to hire and retain key employees our business and financial condition could be harmed. Our executive officers will be free to compete against us upon termination of their employment. Each of our executive officers is party to an employment agreement with us, which generally restricts them from competing against us during their employment. However, upon termination of employment, our executive officers will be free to compete against us. Therefore, if any of our former executive officers were to compete against us, our business could be adversely affected. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our future operating results. The strength and profitability of our business will depend on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and ongoing terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere, had a negative impact on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which terrorist and anti-terrorist activities may affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. In particular, because we expect that our business will rely heavily upon customers traveling by air to Las Vegas, both domestically and internationally, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel by air, like the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, could have a negative impact on our future operations. In addition to fears of war and future acts of terrorism, other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. Negative changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we will offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. We are subject to environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. We may be required to incur significant costs and expend significant funds to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, exposure to asbestos or other hazardous materials, and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. Violation of these laws and regulations could lead to substantial fines and penalties. Under these and other environmental requirements, we, as an owner and/or operator of property, may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at that property. As an owner or operator, we could also potentially be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. These laws and regulations often impose cleanup responsibility and liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The liability under environmental 30 Table of Contents laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of contaminants may be substantial, and the presence of contaminants, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to rent or otherwise use our property. Our hotel development, including our proposed Park Central site redevelopment and the Graceland hotel(s), are subject to timing, budgeting and other risks which could materially adversely affect our business. We intend to develop hotels as part of our redevelopment of the Park Central site and adjacent to Graceland in Memphis, Tennessee and other properties as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project development has a number of risks, including risks associated with: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • construction defects or noncompliance with construction specifications; • receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; • so-called acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could delay the development of a project; • the availability and cost of capital and/or debt financing; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. Any one of these risks could cause one of our development projects to be completed behind schedule or over budget. Our subsidiaries will need to recruit a substantial number of new employees before our Las Vegas and Memphis project(s) open, which they may or may not be able to do, and these employees may seek unionization, either of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our subsidiaries will need to recruit a substantial number of new employees before our Las Vegas and Memphis projects open and the employees in Las Vegas and Memphis may seek union representation. We cannot be certain that our subsidiaries will be able to recruit a sufficient number of qualified employees. In addition, any employees that we or our subsidiaries might employ could also seek to collectively negotiate the terms and conditions of their employment. Unionization, pressure to unionize or other forms of collective bargaining could increase our labor costs. We continue to explore opportunities to develop additional related businesses that could have an adverse impact on our business if unsuccessful. We continue to explore opportunities to develop additional related businesses in Las Vegas and other markets. Any acquisition, investment or development could be expensive, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and/or adversely affect our financial results. There is, and we expect that there will continue to be, significant competition for acquisitions of gaming and hotel properties in Las Vegas and other markets. This competition may result in the increase in the price we would be required to pay to acquire desirable properties. If we pay higher prices, our profitability may be reduced. Moreover, we may expend a substantial amount of time and capital pursuing acquisitions that we do not consummate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The expansion of our operations may place a significant strain on our management, financial and other resources. Our ability to manage future growth will depend upon our ability to monitor operations, control costs and maintain effective quality controls and expand our management, technology and accounting systems, all of which will result 31 Table of Contents in higher operating costs. In addition, any expansion of our business through acquisition, investment or development would likely require us to obtain additional financing and/or consent from the lenders under our credit facilities. Acquisitions also may present other risks, such as exposing our company to potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses and potential difficulties and uncertainties of successfully integrating the acquired businesses with our other then businesses. Any acquisition or development may not be successful in achieving our desired strategic objectives, which also would cause our business to suffer. We continue to need to enhance our internal controls and financial reporting systems to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As of December 31, 2008, Section 404 will require us to assess and attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to opine as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm has informed us that we have material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, including internal controls over accrual accounting, accounting for bad debts, leases, acquisitions of intangible assets, derivative financial instruments and contingencies. We are working with our independent legal, accounting and financial advisors to identify those areas in which changes need to be made to our financial and management control systems to remediate these material weaknesses and manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. These areas include corporate governance, corporate control, internal audit, disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and accounting systems. These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources. We anticipate that we will need to hire additional tax, accounting and finance staff. We believe the cost of these additional services will result in an increase in total annual stand-alone selling, general and administrative, compensation and benefits and insurance expenses in fiscal 2008. In addition, we estimate that we will incur substantial costs to implement the assessment of controls and public reporting mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including Section 404 thereunder. We cannot assure you that our estimates are accurate or that our transition to public reporting will progress smoothly, which could adversely impact our results. Moreover, our expenses may increase. If we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis and may cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the price of our shares of common stock decline. Risks Associated with Redevelopment of the Park Central Site The failure of our redeveloped Park Central site to compete effectively against other casino and hotel facilities in Las Vegas and elsewhere could adversely affect our revenues and harm our financial condition. Las Vegas Casino/Hotel Competition. The casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. Hotel casinos located in Las Vegas compete with other Las Vegas hotels and casinos on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size. Our proposed casino and hotel on the Park Central site also compete with a large number of other hotels, motels and convention centers located in and near Las Vegas, as well as other resort and convention destinations. According to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, there were approximately 132,600 hotel rooms in Las Vegas as of December 31, 2006. Currently, there are approximately 30 major gaming properties located on or near the Las Vegas Strip, approximately ten additional major gaming properties in the downtown area and many additional gaming properties located in other areas of Las Vegas. Competitors of ours will include resorts on the Las Vegas Strip, among which are Bally’s Las Vegas, The Bellagio, Caesars Palace, Excalibur, Harrah’s Las Vegas Hotel and Casino, Luxor Hotel and Casino, Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino, MGM Grand Hotel and Casino, The 32 Table of Contents Mirage, The Monte Carlo Hotel and Casino, New York-New York Hotel and Casino, Paris Las Vegas, Wynn Las Vegas, Treasure Island, Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino and The Venetian, and resorts off the Las Vegas Strip, such as Las Vegas Hilton, The Palms Casino Resort and Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino. Many of our competitors have established gaming operations, are subsidiaries or divisions of large public companies, have multiple hotel and casino properties with significantly longer operating histories and customer followings and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Other Competition. Our proposed Park Central site casino and hotel will also compete, to some extent, with other hotel and casino facilities in Nevada and in Atlantic City, with riverboat gaming facilities in other states, with hotel/casino facilities elsewhere in the world, with state lotteries and with Internet gaming. In addition, certain states recently have legalized, and others may or are likely to legalize, casino gaming in specific areas. Passage of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act in 1988 has led to rapid increases in Native American gaming operations. Also, the California Constitution was amended in 2000 to allow federally recognized Native American tribes that have a ratified compact with the State of California to conduct and operate slot machines, lottery games and banked and percentage card games on Native American land in California. As a result, casino-style gaming on tribal lands in California has become a significant competitive force. The proliferation of Native American gaming in California could have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. The proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. In particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas, such as New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Boston, from which we intend to attract customers, could have a substantial negative effect on our business. Our ability to realize the full value of the Park Central site may be limited by our inability to develop certain parcels in a timely enough fashion or on a cost effective basis because of several existing long-term commercial leases. We have several long-term commercial leases on certain of the parcels that comprise the Park Central site that expire no sooner than 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2019, 2045 and 2059. Although certain of these leases allow us to build on top of and around a tenant or to build improvements on, over or under other portions of the parcels not occupied by a tenant, it may not be feasible to do so because of excessive costs or engineering limitations or both. In addition, for those parcels on which we have no right to build, we would need to reach agreements with the existing tenants as to the early termination of the existing leases or relocation of the establishments in question in order to proceed with the development of such parcels. There is no guarantee that we would be able to reach agreement as to any such early terminations and/or relocations or that such terminations and/or relocations can be done on a cost effective basis. As such, we may not be able to develop these parcels in a timely enough fashion or on a cost effective basis to realize the full value of the Park Central site. Due to the preliminary basis of our redevelopment plans for the Park Central site, our plans regarding the size, scope and phasing of the redevelopment may change. These changes may impact the timing and cost of the redevelopment and our ability to realize the full value of the Park Central site. There are significant risks associated with major construction projects that may substantially increase the costs of the redevelopment or prevent completion of our redevelopment plans on schedule. Major construction projects of the scope and scale of our proposed Park Central site redevelopment entail significant risks, including: • shortages of materials or skilled labor; • unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; • work stoppages; • difficulties in obtaining licenses, permits and authorizations; • weather interference; • unanticipated cost increases; and 33 Table of Contents • unavailability of construction equipment. In addition, any changes in development plans may increase the cost of the project and negatively impact the recoverability of certain capitalized development costs (or result in the write-down of some previously capitalized costs). Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of our proposed Park Central site casino and hotel. We anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged by the contractor to perform work and/or supply materials in connection with the redevelopment of the Park Central site will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of a subcontractor’s work and payment for all of that subcontractor’s labor and materials. We cannot assure you that these bonds will be adequate to ensure completion of the work. We cannot assure you that the proposed construction and redevelopment will commence on schedule or at all, or that construction costs for the construction and redevelopment will not exceed our preliminary estimated amounts. Failure to complete the construction and redevelopment on schedule or the incurrence of significant costs beyond estimated amounts may have a significant negative effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. Simultaneous redevelopment of our Park Central site and construction of an Elvis Presley-themed hotel in Memphis may negatively effect our business and operations by stretching management time and resources. Our Park Central site redevelopment plan is scheduled to commence in the first quarter of 2009, and we may pursue development of an Elvis Presley-themed hotel in Memphis, Tennessee in the same time period. If both projects are being built simultaneously, members of our senior management will be involved in planning and developing both projects. Developing the projects simultaneously may divert management resources from the construction and/or opening of these projects. Management’s inability to devote sufficient time and attention to either project may delay the construction or opening of both projects. This type of delay could have a negative effect on our business and operations. Our business will be subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business. The opening and operation of the proposed casino on our Park Central site will be contingent upon our receipt from and maintenance with the State of Nevada and Clark County of a number of regulatory licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations, including gaming licenses, none of which we have applied for yet given the preliminary stage of the redevelopment of the Park Central site. The timing of such applications will be made as necessary in accordance with the governing local and state laws and regulations. Further, pursuing an acquisition of Riviera Holdings Corporation will also require us to seek from Nevada and Colorado a number of regulatory licenses, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability and gaming licenses. The laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. The scope of the approvals required to open and operate a hotel and casino is extensive. Failure to obtain or maintain the necessary approvals could prevent or delay the completion or opening of all or part of our hotel and casino or otherwise affect the design and features of our proposed Park Central site casino. We do not currently hold any state and local licenses and related approvals necessary to conduct gaming operations in Nevada and Colorado and we cannot be certain that we will obtain at all, or on a timely basis, all required approvals and licenses. Failure to obtain or maintain any of the required gaming approvals and licenses could significantly impair our financial position and results of operations. The respective gaming commissions of Nevada and Colorado may, in their discretion, require the holder of any securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own our securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of their state. 34 Table of Contents Nevada, Colorado and local regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. Substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. The suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming license could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. In the event that any of our senior executives, directors or key employees are unable to obtain a gaming license and approval from the Nevada Gaming Authorities, they will be terminated, and we will not benefit from their experience and expertise. As a condition to commencing and continuing our proposed gaming operations in Nevada, no person may become an officer, director or key employee of ours without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee of ours unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. The loss of the services of one or more of our officers, directors or key employees under such circumstances may have an adverse effect on our operations and business. Our casino business is expected to rely on customers to whom we may extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players. We intend to conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. Table games players typically will be extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically will be extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in any particular quarter. We intend to extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant an extension of credit in the opinion of management. While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the United States Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the United States of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us by international customers, even in jurisdictions that enforce gaming debts. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Substantial amounts of our common stock and other equity securities could be sold in the near future, which could depress our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. All of the outstanding shares of common stock belonging to officers, directors and other affiliates are currently “restricted securities” under the Securities Act. We expect that up to 32,720,078 shares of these restricted securities will be eligible for sale in the public market at prescribed times pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or otherwise. Sales of a significant number of these shares of common stock in the public market or the appearance of such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock and could negatively impact our ability to sell equity 35 Table of Contents in the market to fund our business plans. In addition, we expect that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional common stock and other equity securities as part of our efforts to raise capital to fund our development plans. The issuance of these securities could negatively effect the value of our stock. Beginning 90 days following the consummation of the rights offering described elsewhere herein, if requested by The Huff Alternative Fund, L.P. and its affiliate, we will be required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission such number of shares of common stock designated by The Huff Alternative Fund, L.P. and its affiliate, pursuant to registration rights granted in connection with the investment agreement. At such time as we become eligible to file a registration statement on Form S-3, upon request from The Huff Alternative Fund, L.P. and its affiliate, we will register the remaining shares not registered pursuant to the first registration; provided, however, if we are not eligible to file a registration statement on Form S-3 by January 9, 2009, we shall file a registration statement on Form S-1 to register the balance of the shares held by The Huff Alternative Fund, L.P. and its affiliate. The Huff Alternative Fund, L.P. and its affiliate are also entitled to unlimited piggyback rights. The sale or proposed sale by The Huff Alternative Fund, L.P. and/or its affiliate of all or any portion of their shares could depress the value of our stock and negatively impact our ability to sell equity in the market to fund our business plans. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of dividends may have a negative effect on our stock price. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our credit facilities prohibit, and the terms of any future debt agreements we may enter into are likely to prohibit or restrict, the payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Our issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, would dilute proportionate ownership and voting rights. Our issuance of shares of preferred stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, could negatively impact the value of a stockholder’s shares of common stock as the result of preferential voting rights or veto powers, dividend rights, disproportionate rights to appoint directors to our board, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions granted to preferred stockholders, including the grant of rights that could discourage or prevent the distribution of dividends to stockholders, or prevent the sale of our assets or a potential takeover of our company that might otherwise result in stockholders receiving a distribution or a premium over the market price for their common stock. We are entitled, under our certificate of incorporation to issue up to 300 million common and 75 million “blank check” preferred shares. After taking into consideration our outstanding common and preferred shares as of March 17, 2008, we will be entitled to issue up to 244,263,549 additional common shares and 75,000,000 preferred shares. Our board may generally issue those common and preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, without further approval by our stockholders based upon such factors as our board of directors may deem relevant at that time. Any preferred shares we may issue shall have such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as may be designated from time-to-time by our board, including preferential dividend rights, voting rights, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions. Completion of the rights offering described elsewhere herein and, if applicable, sales of shares under the related investment agreements will result in a dilution of proportionate ownership and voting rights for stockholders that do not participate in the rights offering. In addition to the rights offering, we expect that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional securities to raise capital to further our development and marketing plans. It is also likely that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional securities to directors, officers, employees and consultants as compensatory grants in connection with their services, both in the form of stand-alone grants or under our various stock plans. We cannot give you any assurance that we will not issue additional common or preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, under circumstances we may deem appropriate at the time. 36 Table of Contents We may redeem or require you to sell your shares due to regulatory considerations, either as required by gaming authorities or in our discretion, which may negatively affect an investment. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, to the extent a gaming authority determines that you or your affiliates are unsuitable or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by our board of directors, we may redeem shares of our capital stock that you or your affiliates own or control. The redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed to be the fair value by our board of directors. If we determine the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading date on the day before the redemption notice is given. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as we elect. In the event our board of directors determines that such a redemption would adversely affect us, we shall require you and/or your affiliates to sell the shares of our common stock subject to the redemption. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, subject to the right of the stockholders to elect a successor at the next annual or special meeting of stockholders, which limits the ability of stockholders to fill vacancies on our board of directors. • Our stockholders may not call a special meeting of stockholders, which would limit their ability to call a meeting for the purpose of, among other things, voting on acquisition proposals. • Our by-laws may be amended by our board of directors without stockholder approval, provided that stockholders may repeal or amend any such amended by-law at a special or annual meeting of stockholders. • Our by-laws also provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at an annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders may not be taken by written action in lieu of a meeting. • Our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which could limit the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates. • Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. • Our board of directors may authorize and issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire our company. As a Delaware corporation, by an express provision in our certificate of incorporation, we have elected to “opt out” of the restrictions under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents 