ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors in this section describe the major risks to our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, and should be considered carefully. In addition, these factors constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements (as defined in such act) made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investors should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Any statements that are not historical facts and that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimated,” “intends,” “plans,”“believes” and “projects”) may be forward-looking and may involve estimates and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. - 6 - - Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of such factors. Further, we cannot assess the impact of each such factor on our results of operations or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Risks Related To Our Business WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN SUFFICIENT CAPITAL TO FUND OUR PLANNED EXPANSION AND CONSTRUCTION OF A SCRAP STEEL RECYCLING FACILITY AND MAY BE FORCED TO LIMIT THE SCOPE OF OUR OPERATIONS. If adequate additional financing is not available on reasonable terms, we may not be able to undertake the expansion of our metal ore business or the construction of the scrap metal recycling facility and purchase additional machinery and equipment for the operations of this facility and we would have to modify our business plans accordingly. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available to us. In connection with our planned expansion and construction of a scrap metal recycling facility, we may experience increased capital needs and accordingly, we may not have sufficient capital to fund these initiatives without additional capital investments. Our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including (i) our profitability; (ii) the actual versus planned cost to construct and equip the scrap metal recycling facility; (iii) the level of our investment in research and development; and (iv) the amount of our capital expenditures, including acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital in the future to meet our needs. If we cannot obtain additional funding, we may be required to: (i) substantially curtail our operations; (ii) limit our marketing efforts; (iii) abandon or delay construction of the scrap metal facility; and (iii) decrease or eliminate capital expenditures. Such reductions could materially adversely affect our business and our ability to compete. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable terms and conditions for obtaining the additional capital. Any future capital investments could dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. In addition, new equity or convertible debt securities issued by us to obtain financing could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. We cannot give any assurance that any additional financing will be available to us, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us. OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE AFFECTED BY FLUCTUATIONS IN RAW MATERIAL PRICES. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PASS ON COST INCREASES TO CUSTOMERS. Our operating profits may be negatively affected by fluctuations in the price of metal ore. We are subject to short-term metal ore price volatility and may be forced to purchase metal ore at higher prices and may be unable to pass the cost increase of metal ore on to our customers. This may adversely affect gross margins and profitability. Although our sales agreements with our customers generally do not contain a provision that permits the parties to adjust the contract price of the metal ore upward or downward, we have, in most cases fixed price supply contracts for the metal ore we sell. OUR FUTURE NET INCOME MAY BE AFFECTED BY UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES AND INCREASING CUSTOMER CREDIT RISK. Based on the current market conditions, we changed our credit policy from requiring payment in full upon delivery of the goods to extending credit terms of 1 to 6 months. This may expose us to certain customer credit risks related to the collection of our accounts receivable. Our diversified client base includes a large number of enterprises, from small and large businesses in China. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis. We maintain reserves that we believe are adequate to cover exposure for any uncollectible accounts receivables and regularly review such reserves by considering factors such as write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts. If we become aware of additional information related to the credit worthiness of a major customer, or, if future actual default rates on accounts receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, we may have to adjust our reserves, which could affect our consolidated net income in the period the adjustments are made. More importantly, we may incur losses from the defaults of payments. - 7 - - WE NEED TO MANAGE GROWTH IN OPERATIONS TO MAXIMIZE OUR POTENTIAL GROWTH AND ACHIEVE OUR EXPECTED REVENUES AND OUR FAILURE TO MANAGE GROWTH WILL CAUSE A DISRUPTION OF OUR OPERATIONS RESULTING IN THE FAILURE TO GENERATE REVENUE. In order to maximize potential growth in our current and potential markets, we believe that we must expand our sales and marketing operations and enter into the scrap metal business by constructing a recycling facility. This expansion will place a significant strain on our management and our operational, accounting, and information systems. We expect that we will need to continue to improve our financial controls, operating procedures, and management information systems. We will also need to effectively recruit, train, motivate, and manage our employees. Our failure to manage our growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenues we expect. WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT OUR GROWTH STRATEGY WILL BE SUCCESSFUL WHICH MAY RESULT IN A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR GROWTH, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOW. One of our strategies is to grow through increasing the distribution and sales of our metal ore products by penetrating existing markets in the PRC and entering new geographic markets in the PRC. However, many obstacles to entering such new markets exist, including, but not limited to, shipping and delivery costs, costs associated with marketing efforts and maintaining attractive foreign exchange ratios. We cannot, therefore, assure you that we will be able to successfully overcome such obstacles and establish our products in any additional markets. Our inability to implement this organic growth strategy successfully may have a negative impact on our growth, future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. WE CANNOT ASSURE THAT WE WILL SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE CONSTRUCTION OF OUR PROPOSED SCRAP STEEL RECYCLING FACILITY, OR, EVEN IF CONSTRUCTED, THAT OUR PROPOSED RECYCLING FACILITY WILL CONTRIBUTE TO OUR OVERALL PROFITABILITY, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND THE MARKET PRICE FOR OUR SHARES. We expect to increase our revenue by selling recycled scrap metal to be processed in our scrap metal recycling facility which we intend to build. However, we will require additional financing in order to construct the facility, and we have not entered into agreements for all aspects of construction necessary to complete construction of the facility. Moreover, the operation of a scrap metal recycling facility is equipment and labor intensive and depends on a ready source of raw unprocessed scrap metal. Thus, even if constructed, we can provide no assurance that we can generate significant revenues from the operation of this facility, or that its operations will contribute to our overall profitability. Delays in construction and/or unanticipated equipment and/or labor and raw material costs and delays could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, in which event the market price for our shares may be adversely affected. WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT OUR ACQUISITION GROWTH STRATEGY WILL BE SUCCESSFUL RESULTING IN OUR FAILURE TO MEET GROWTH AND REVENUE EXPECTATIONS. In addition to our organic growth strategy, we may seek to grow through strategic acquisitions. We may pursue opportunities to acquire businesses in the PRC that are complementary or related in product lines and business structure to us. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate or to finance acquisitions on terms that are satisfactory to us. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate successfully the terms of an acquisition, or, if the acquisition occurs, integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require debt financing or additional equity financing, resulting in leverage or dilution of ownership. Integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not be able to maintain key employees or customers of an acquired business or realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. At times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. In addition to the above, acquisitions in the PRC, including of state owned businesses, will be required to comply with laws of the PRC, to the extent applicable. There can be no assurance that any given proposed acquisition will be able to comply with PRC requirements, rules and/or regulations, or that we will successfully obtain governmental approvals which are necessary to consummate such acquisitions, to the extent required. If our acquisition strategy is unsuccessful, we will not grow our operations and revenues at the rate that we anticipate. - 8 - - CERTAIN AGREEMENTS TO WHICH WE ARE A PARTY AND WHICH ARE MATERIAL TO OUR OPERATIONS LACK VARIOUS LEGAL PROTECTIONS WHICH ARE CUSTOMARILY CONTAINED IN SIMILAR CONTRACTS PREPARED IN THE UNITED STATES. Our subsidiaries include companies organized under the laws of the PRC and all of their business and operations are conducted in China and Hong Kong. We are a party to certain contracts related to our operations in China and Hong Kong. While these contracts contain the basic business terms of the agreements between the parties, these contracts do not contain certain clauses which are customarily contained in similar contracts prepared in the U.S., such as representations and warranties of the parties, confidentiality and non-compete clauses, provisions outlining events of defaults, and termination and jurisdictional clauses. Because our contracts in China omit these customary clauses, notwithstanding the differences in Chinese and U.S. laws, we may not have the same legal protections as we would if the contracts contained these additional clauses. We anticipate that our Chinese and Hong Kong subsidiaries will likely enter into contracts in the future which will likewise omit these customary legal protections. While we have not been subject to any adverse consequences as a result of the omission of these customary clauses, and we consider the contracts to which we are a party to contain all the material terms of our business arrangements with the other party, future events may occur which lead to a dispute which could have been avoided if the contracts included customary clauses in conformity with U.S. standards. Contractual disputes which may arise from this lack of legal protection could divert management's time from the operation of our business, require us to expend funds attempting to settle a possible dispute, limit the time our management would otherwise devote to the operation of our business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AND THE LOSS OF THEIR SERVICES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, Yao Kexuan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Fengtao Wen, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, revenues or prospects. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of these individuals. WE MAY NEVER PAY ANY DIVIDENDS TO SHAREHOLDERS. We have not declared any cash dividends on our common stock since we completed the purchase of Armco pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement and our board of directors does not intend to declare or distribute dividends in the near future. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors as the board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and, if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. MANAGEMENT EXERCISES SIGNIFICANT CONTROL OVER MATTERS REQUIRING SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL WHICH MAY RESULT IN THE DELAY OR PREVENTION OF A CHANGE IN OUR CONTROL. Mr. Kexuan Yao, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, would have voting power equal to approximately 52.51% of our voting securities if he exercises his right and fulfills the conditions to exercise an option for 5,300,000 shares of our common stock. As a result, management through such stock ownership rights has the ability to exercise significant control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership in management may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by shareholders other than management. WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH UNITED STATES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these newly applicable rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. - 9 - - WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MEET THE ACCELERATED FILING AND INTERNAL CONTROL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION RESULTING IN A POSSIBLE DECLINE IN THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND OUR INABILITY TO OBTAIN FUTURE FINANCING. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as amended by SEC Release No. 33-8934 on June 26, 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring each public company to include a report of management on the company's internal controls over financial reporting in its annual reports. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company's financial statements must also attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company's internal controls. Commencing with its annual report for the year ending December 31, 2009, we will be required to include a report of management on its internal control over financial reporting. The internal control report must include a statement · · Of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over its financial reporting; · Of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of year end; and · Of the framework used by management to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, in the following year, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to file its attestation report separately on our internal control over financial reporting on whether it believes that we have maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. While we expect to expend significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, there is a risk that we may not be able to comply timely with all of the requirements imposed by this rule. In the event that we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and our stock price and ability to obtain equity or debt financing as needed could suffer. In addition, in the event that our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to rely on our internal controls in connection with its audit of our financial statements, and in the further event that it is unable to devise alternative procedures in order to satisfy itself as to the material accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures, it is possible that we would be unable to file our Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to secure additional financing as needed. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY RAISING NECESSARY CAPITAL TO FUND OPERATIONS AS A RESULT OF MARKET PRICE VOLATILITY FOR OUR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If we are able to complete construction of our planned scrap metal recycling facility and expand the distribution and sales of our metal ore products, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new products and services related to these aspects of our business and to expand into new markets. The exploitation of our business may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. Risks Related To Doing Business in China A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR ASSETS AND OPERATIONS ARE LOCATED IN THE PRC AND ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGES RESULTING FROM THE POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC POLICIES OF THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT. - 10 - - Our business operations could be restricted by the political environment in the PRC. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since 1949 and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. In recent years, however, the government has introduced reforms aimed at creating a "socialist market economy" and policies have been implemented to allow business enterprises greater autonomy in their operations. Changes in the political leadership of the PRC may have a significant effect on laws and policies related to the current economic reform programs, other policies affecting business and the general political, economic and social environment in the PRC, including the introduction of measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad, and foreign investment. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation or increases of such disparities could affect the political or social stability of the PRC. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, the future direction of these economic reforms is uncertain and the uncertainty may decrease the attractiveness of our company as an investment, which may in turn result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT THE CURRENT CHINESE POLICIES OF ECONOMIC REFORM WILL CONTINUE BECAUSE OF THIS UNCERTAINTY, THERE ARE SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIC RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA. Although the majority of productive assets in China are owned by the Chinese government, in the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourages private economic activity. In keeping with these economic reform policies, the PRC has been openly promoting business development in order to bring more business into the PRC. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffective, there are no assurances that: · the Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; · economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; · policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; or · operations in China will not become subject to the risk of nationalization. We cannot assure you that we will be able to capitalize on these economic reforms, assuming the reforms continue. Because our business model is dependent upon the continued economic reform and growth in China, any change in Chinese government policy could materially adversely affect our ability to continue to expand our business. China's economy has experienced significant growth in the past decade, but such growth has been uneven across geographic and economic sectors and has recently been slowing. Even if the Chinese government continues its policies of economic reform, there are no assurances that economic growth in China will continue or that we will be able to take advantage of these opportunities in a fashion that will provide financial benefit to us. THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT EXERTS SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER THE MANNER IN WHICH OUR CHINESE SUBSIDIARIES MUST CONDUCT THEIR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. The PRC only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions of the PRC, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in our Chinese subsidiaries. FUTURE INFLATION IN CHINA MAY INHIBIT ECONOMIC ACTIVITY IN CHINA. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past 10 years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the PRC government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation in the future could cause the PRC government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China. Any actions by the PRC government to regulate growth and contain inflation could have the effect of limiting our ability to grow our revenues in future periods. - 11 - - ANY RECURRENCE OF SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME, OR SARS, OR ANOTHER WIDESPREAD PUBLIC HEALTH PROBLEM, COULD INTERRUPT OUR OPERATIONS. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in China could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: · quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations; · the sickness or death of our key management and employees; or · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. An occurrence of any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could result in a loss of revenues in future periods and could impact our ability to conduct the operations of our Chinese subsidiaries as they are presently conducted. If we were unable to continue the operations of our Chinese subsidiaries as they are now conducted, our revenues in future periods would decline and our ability to continue as a going concern could be in jeopardy. If we were unable to continue as a going concern, investors could lose their entire investment in our company. RESTRICTIONS ON CURRENCY EXCHANGE MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO RECEIVE AND USE OUR REVENUES EFFECTIVELY. WE MAY NOT HAVE READY ACCESS TO CASH ON DEPOSIT IN BANKS IN THE PRC. Because a substantial portion of our revenues are in the form of RMB, the main currency used in China, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. Dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to government approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that we could have ready access to the cash should we wish to transfer it to bank accounts outside the PRC nor can we be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ENFORCE OUR RIGHTS DUE TO POLICIES REGARDING THE REGULATION OF FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN CHINA. The PRC's legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedent, unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. The PRC does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion and variation, and may be subject to influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. China's regulations and policies with respect to foreign investments are evolving. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been published. Statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broad interpretation and discretion and to be modified, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. The uncertainties regarding such regulations and policies present risks which may affect our current operations and future plans in China. If we are unable to enforce any legal rights we may have under our contracts or otherwise, our ability to compete with other companies in the steel industry could be limited which could result in a loss of revenue in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RECENT REGULATIONS RELATING TO OFFSHORE INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES BY CHINESE RESIDENTS MAY INCREASE THE ADMINISTRATIVE BURDEN WE FACE AND CREATE REGULATORY UNCERTAINTIES THAT MAY LIMIT OR ADVERSELY EFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COMPLETE A BUSINESS COMBINATION WITH PRC COMPANIES. Regulations were issued on November 1, 2005 (SAFE Circular 75), on September 2006 (2006 M&A Rules), and on May 29, 2007 (SAFE Implementation Notice 106), by the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, that will require approvals from, and registrations with, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities; however, there has been a recent announcement that such regulations may be partially reversed. The SAFE regulations retroactively require approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. - 12 - - In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. The regulations discussed could also result in the relevant Chinese government authorities limiting or eliminating our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future, which could limit or eliminate our ability to pay dividends in the future. More recently, however, new regulations have been drafted that would partially reverse the policy that requires Chinese companies to obtain permission from SAFE to own overseas corporate entities. As a result of the lack of implementing rules, the uncertainty as to when the new draft regulations will take effect, and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how these existing regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We believe that our acquisition of Armco complies with the relevant rules. As a result of the foregoing, however, we cannot assure you that we or the former owners of Armco or owners of a target business we might acquire, as the case may be, will be able to complete the necessary approval, filings and registrations for a proposed business combination if such approval were required. This may restrict our ability to implement our business combination strategy and adversely affect our operations. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE UNITED STATES FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT COULD SUBJECT US TO PENALTIES AND OTHER ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY ESTABLISHING ADEQUATE MANAGEMENT, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL CONTROLS IN THE PRC. PRC companies have in some cases, been resistant to the adoption of Western styles of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which include sufficient corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulties in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards with future acquisitions. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related To Our Securities OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION PROVIDE FOR INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS AT OUR EXPENSE AND LIMIT THEIR LIABILITY WHICH MAY RESULT IN A MAJOR COST TO US AND HURT THE INTERESTS OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS BECAUSE CORPORATE RESOURCES MAY BE EXPENDED FOR THE BENEFIT OF OFFICERS AND/OR DIRECTORS. Our articles of incorporation and applicable Nevada law provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney's fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on our behalf. We will also bear the expenses of such litigation for any of our directors, officers, employees, or agents, upon such person's written promise to repay us if it is ultimately determined that any such person shall not have been entitled to indemnification. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures by us which we will be unable to recoup. We have been advised that, in the opinion of the SEC, indemnification for liabilities arising under federal securities laws is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for indemnification for liabilities arising under federal securities laws, other than the payment by us of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer or controlling person in the successful defense of any action, suit or proceeding, is asserted by a director, officer or controlling person in connection with the securities being registered, we will (unless in the opinion of our counsel, the matter has been settled by controlling precedent) submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction, the question whether indemnification by us is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and will be governed by the final adjudication of such issue. The legal process relating to this matter if it were to occur is likely to be very costly and may result in us receiving negative publicity, either of which factors is likely to materially reduce the market and price for our shares, if such a market ever develops. - 13 - - CURRENTLY, THERE IS NO PUBLIC MARKET FOR OUR SECURITIES, AND THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCES THAT ANY PUBLIC MARKET WILL EVER DEVELOP OR THAT OUR COMMON STOCK WILL BE QUOTED FOR TRADING AND, EVEN IF QUOTED, IT IS LIKELY TO BE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT PRICE FLUCTUATIONS. We have a trading symbol for our common stock, CNAM, which permits our shares to be quoted on the over-the-counter bulletin board ("OTCBB"). However, our stock has been thinly traded since approval of our quotation on the OTCBB by the Financial Industry Regulartory Authority ("FINRA"). Consequently, there can be no assurances as to whether: · any market for our common stock will develop; · the prices at which our common stock will trade; or · the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to the development of an active, liquid trading market. Active trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for investors. In addition, our common stock is unlikely to be followed by any market analysts, and there may be few institutions acting as market makers for our common stock. Either of these factors could adversely affect the liquidity and trading price of our common stock. Until our common stock is fully distributed and an orderly market develops in our common stock, if ever, the price at which it trades is likely to fluctuate significantly. Prices for our common stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including the depth and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock, developments affecting our business, including the impact of the factors referred to elsewhere in these risk factors, investor perception of us and general economic and market conditions. No assurances can be given that an orderly or liquid market will ever develop for the shares of our common stock. ANY MARKET THAT DEVELOPS IN SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK WILL BE SUBJECT TO THE PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS WHICH WILL CREATE A LACK OF LIQUIDITY AND MAKE TRADING DIFFICULT OR IMPOSSIBLE. The trading of our securities, if any, will be in the OTCBB as maintained by FINRA. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock. Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a minimum bid price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to a limited number of exceptions which are not available to us. It is likely that our shares will be considered to be penny stocks for the immediately foreseeable future. This classification severely and adversely affects any market liquidity for our common stock. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the penny stock rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience and objectives of the person and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and that that person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form, sets forth: · the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination, and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. - 14 - - Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and commissions’ payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because of these regulations, broker-dealers may not wish to engage in the above-referenced necessary paperwork and disclosures and/or may encounter difficulties in their attempt to sell shares of our common stock, which may affect the ability of selling shareholders or other holders to sell their shares in any secondary market and have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in any secondary market. These additional sales practice and disclosure requirements could impede the sale of our common stock, if and when our common stock becomes publicly traded. In addition, the liquidity for our common stock may decrease, with a corresponding decrease in the price of our common stock. Our shares, in all probability, will be subject to such penny stock rules for the foreseeable future and our shareholders will, in all likelihood, find it difficult to sell their common stock. THE MARKET FOR PENNY STOCKS HAS EXPERIENCED NUMEROUS FRAUDS AND ABUSES WHICH COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT INVESTORS IN OUR STOCK. We believe that the market for penny stocks has suffered from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: · Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; · Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; · “Boiler room" practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; · Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and · Wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. We believe that many of these abuses have occurred with respect to the promotion of low price stock companies that lacked experienced management, adequate financial resources, an adequate business plan and/or marketable and successful business or product. OUR CONTROLLING SECURITY HOLDERS MAY TAKE ACTIONS THAT CONFLICT WITH YOUR INTERESTS. All of our officers and directors beneficially own approximately 52.71% of our common stock. In this case, all of our officers and directors will be able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions, and they will have significant control over our management and policies. The directors elected by these security holders will be able to significantly influence decisions affecting our capital structure. This control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other security holders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. For example, our controlling security holders will be able to control the sale or other disposition of our operating businesses and subsidiaries to another entity. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This prospectus contains forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled “Summary,” “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and “Business.” These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to; the factors described in the section captioned “Risk Factors” above. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “projects,” “should,” “would” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and subject to risks and uncertainties. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements relating to: - 15 - - · Our plans to successfully complete construction of our proposed scrap metal recycling facility, or, even if constructed, our ability to operate the proposed recycling facility profitably; · Our intentions to obtain sufficient additional capital to fund our planned expansion and construction of a scrap metal recycling facility; · our expectations regarding the market for our iron ore and recycled metal products and services; · our beliefs regarding the continued growth of the metal ore and recycled metals market; · our beliefs regarding the competitiveness of our metal ore distribution business; · our expectations with respect to increased revenue growth from our metal ore distribution operations and our ability to achieve profitability resulting from sales of recycled metal ; · our future business development, results of operations and financial condition; and · Competition from other metal ore distributors and recycled metal manufacturers. Also, forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this prospectus. You should read this prospectus and the documents that we reference in this prospectus, or that we filed as exhibits to the registration statement of which this prospectus is a part, completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 