Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences, including those described below. You should refer to our discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements on page 3. Our Commercial Real Estate and Commercial and Industrial, or C&I, Loans May Expose Us to Increased Credit Risks, and These Risks Will Increase if We Succeed in Increasing These Types of Loans. Commercial real estate and C&I loans represent a significant portion of our loan portfolio. Our goal is to increase the level of our C&I, and on a more selective basis our permanent commercial real estate, segments as a proportion of our portfolio over the next several years. In general, commercial real estate loans and C&I loans generate higher returns, but also pose greater credit risks, than owner occupied residential mortgage loans. As our various commercial loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. The repayment of commercial real estate loans depends on the business and financial condition of borrowers, and a number of our borrowers have more than one commercial real estate loan outstanding with us. Further, these loans are concentrated primarily in Eastern Massachusetts. Economic events and changes in government regulations, which we and our borrowers cannot control or reliably predict, could have an adverse impact on the cash flows generated by properties securing our commercial real estate loans and on the values of the properties securing those loans. We make both secured and, to a much lesser extent, unsecured C&I loans. Repayment of both secured and unsecured C&I loans depends substantially on the borrowers' underlying business, financial condition and cash flows. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers' businesses. Secured C&I loans are generally collateralized by equipment, leases, inventory, accounts receivable and other fixed assets. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. 40 Table of Contents Our Focus on Construction Lending Could Expose Us to Risks Not Associated With Other Types of Lending. We originate construction loans for one- to four-family homes, residential condominiums, commercial, multi-family and other non-residential purposes. Construction and land development loans carry higher levels of risk compared to other types of lending, predicated on whether the project can be completed on-time and on-budget and, for non-owner occupied projects, whether our customer can find tenants at rents that will service the debt or buyers that will pay the appraised value for the completed project. Construction loans are typically based upon estimates of costs to complete the project and an appraised value associated with the completed project. Cost estimates and completed appraised values are subject to changes in the market, and these values may change between the time a loan is approved and the project is completed. Delays or cost overruns in completing a project may arise from labor problems, material shortages and other unpredicted contingencies. If actual construction costs exceed budget, our borrowers may have to put more capital into their projects, or we may have to increase the loan amount to ensure the project is completed, potentially resulting in a higher loan-to-value ratio than anticipated. Where a non-owner occupied project is not pre-leased, changes in the market could result in a slow lease-up period or rents below the levels anticipated. For residential land development or construction loans for residential properties that have not been pre-sold, a general slowdown in home buying could result in slow sales and reduced prices. Either situation will strain our borrowers' cash flows and potentially cause deterioration in this segment of our portfolio. The current slowdown in the sales of single-family and residential condominiums, and the related reduction in prices, has affected construction lending activities in our market area. These conditions have led us to curtail much of our construction lending activities. These same conditions have extended the durations of some of our existing construction loans, thereby increasing the risk of possible loss on these loans. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions, including growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts, in the counties in which we conduct business. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to be unfavorable, our business may be adversely affected. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Essex, Middlesex and, to a lesser extent, Suffolk Counties, in Eastern Massachusetts. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Tenant occupancy rates for commercial real estate and for residential properties have been declining in our market area. In addition, rental rates for both types of properties, particularly commercial, have also been declining. A continued decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, a decline in real estate values, or other factors beyond our control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A Decline in Local Real Estate Values Could Reduce Our Profits. A large segment of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Essex and Middlesex Counties. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would reduce our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses, which would reduce our profits. A future decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, 41 Table of Contents which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. For a discussion of our market area, see "Business—Market Area and Competition" on page 5. Recent Market Volatility May Impact Our Business and the Value of Our Common Stock. Our business performance and the trading price of shares of our common stock may be affected by many factors affecting financial institutions, including the recent volatility in the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and the value of debt and mortgage-backed and other securities that we hold in our investment portfolio. Government action and legislation may also impact us and the value of our common stock. Given the unprecedented nature of this volatility, we cannot predict what impact, if any, it will have on our business or share price and for these and other reasons our shares of common stock may trade at a price lower than that at which they were purchased. The Recent Increase in FDIC Deposit Insurance Premiums Will Increase Our Non-Interest Expense. On December 16, 2008, the FDIC adopted a final rule, became effective on January 1, 2009, increasing the deposit insurance assessment rate by seven cents per $100 of deposits. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted another final rule, which became effective on April 1, 2009, that, among other things, changes the way that the FDIC's assessment system differentiates for risk and makes corresponding changes to assessment rates beginning with the second quarter of 2009. As a result, our base assessment rate increased again on April 1, 2009. In addition, the FDIC imposed a one-time special assessment on June 30, 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009, in the amount equal to 10 cents per $100 of deposits. The Bank's one-time assessment was $810,000. In addition, the Bank prepaid its quarterly risk-based assessment for the next three years in the amount of $9.1 million, as mandated by the FDIC. The increase in our deposit insurance premiums will result in an increase in our non-interest expense. If Our Allowance For Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which may require additions to our allowance. Although we are unaware of any specific problems with our loan portfolio that would require any increase in our allowance at the present time, it may need to be increased in the future due to adverse developments affecting our construction loans or our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of C&I and commercial real estate loans. Any material additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. Our business strategy calls for continued growth of commercial real estate loans and C&I loans. These loans typically expose us to greater risk than one- to four-family owner-occupied residential real estate loans. As we further increase the amount of these loans in our loan portfolio, we may increase our provisions for loan losses, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provisions for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our 42 Table of Contents allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our profitability, like that of most community banks, depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between our gross interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition depend largely on movements in market interest rates and our ability to manage our interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in response to these movements. We are also subject to reinvestment risk relating to interest rate movements. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are not able to reinvest funds from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, including, in particular, the value of our investment securities portfolio, which is comprised mainly of debt securities. Generally, the value of debt securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity, net of related taxes. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale therefore would have an adverse affect on our stockholders' equity. See "Business—Investment Activities" on page 19. We May Have Difficulty Meeting Our Branch Expansion Goals, and Our Branch Expansion Strategy May Not Be Accretive to Earnings. Our growth plans include the opening of new branch offices in communities within our market area, as well as in other communities contiguous to those we currently serve. Our ability to establish new branches will depend on whether we can identify suitable sites and negotiate acceptable lease or purchase and sale terms. However, we may not be able to do so, and identifying suitable sites and negotiating acceptable terms may be more expensive, or take longer, than we expect. Moreover, once we establish a new branch, numerous factors will contribute to its performance, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather significant loans and deposits to generate enough income to offset its expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. There can be no assurance that our branch expansion strategy will be accretive to our earnings within a reasonable period of time. Our Ability to Diversify Our Sources of Non-Interest Income May Be Limited if We Cannot Make Acquisitions. We will continue to seek to increase non-interest income through the acquisition of non-banking businesses such as insurance and investment management businesses if opportunities arise. Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of these businesses will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating them. We compete with other financial institutions and acquirers with respect to potential acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or make acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, we cannot assure you that we can successfully integrate any acquired businesses into our organization in a timely or efficient manner, that we will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or that we can achieve anticipated operating efficiencies. 43 Table of Contents In the event that we make any acquisitions, we will be presented with many risks that could have a materially negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Any business that we acquire may be engaged in a business that is less familiar to us or have unknown asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities that we did not discover or fully recognize in the due diligence process, thereby resulting in unanticipated losses. The acquisition of other businesses typically requires the integration of different corporate cultures, loan, deposit and other products, pricing strategies, data processing systems and other technologies, accounting, internal audit and financial reporting systems, operational processes, policies, procedures and internal controls, marketing programs and personnel of the acquired business in order to make the transaction economically advantageous. The integration process is complicated and time consuming, and could divert our attention from other business concerns and be disruptive to our customers and the customers of the acquired business. Our failure to successfully integrate an acquired business could result in the loss of key customers and employees, and prevent us from achieving expected synergies and cost savings. Acquisitions also result in expenses that could adversely affect our earnings, and in goodwill that could become impaired, requiring us to recognize further charges. We may finance acquisitions with borrowed funds, thereby increasing our leverage and reducing our liquidity, or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. Our Business Depends Upon Key Employees, and if We Are Unable to Retain the Services of These Key Employees or to Attract and Retain Additional Qualified Personnel, Our Business May Suffer. We are substantially dependent on a number of key employees, including our executive officers. Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of our existing key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any one of our key employees, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the quality and profitability of our business operations. In particular, the loss of key commercial loan officers, or the failure to attract and hire additional loan officers to expand our commercial real estate and C&I lending programs could have a material adverse effect on our business strategy. In connection with the conversion, we entered into employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Lending Officer, and our Chief Financial Officer in January 2008. We May Be Unable to Successfully Integrate Beverly's Operations and Retain Beverly's Key Employees. Our merger with Beverly involves the integration of two companies that previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining the companies' operations include: •integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; •integrating departments, systems, operating procedures and information technologies; •combining different corporate cultures; •retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; and •retaining key employees. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company's businesses and the loss of key personnel. The integration of the two companies will require the experience and expertise of certain of Beverly's key employees. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be successful in retaining these employees for the time period necessary to successfully integrate Beverly's operations with our operations. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies' operations could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company. 44 Table of Contents Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. We face significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. See "Business—Market Area and Competition" on page 5. Savings banks, credit unions, co-operative banks, savings and loan associations and commercial banks operating in our primary market area have historically provided most of our competition for deposits. In addition, and particularly in times of high interest rates, we face additional and significant competition for funds from money-market mutual funds and issuers of corporate and government securities. Competition for the origination of real estate and other loans comes from other thrift institutions, commercial banks, insurance companies, finance companies, other institutional lenders and mortgage companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have as a community bank. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over us. This advantage places significant competitive pressure on the prices of our loans and deposits. We Continually Encounter Technological Change, and We May Have Fewer Resources Than Many of Our Larger Competitors to Continue to Invest in Technological Improvements. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Failures, interruptions or breaches in security of either of these systems could cause failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any of these failures or disruptions could result in monetary losses or a loss of customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Law and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See "Business—Regulation and Supervision" on page 28. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators' supervisory policies or examination procedures, particularly any changes relating to commercial real estate lending, C&I lending or other key components of our business, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress or the Massachusetts legislature, or our failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our expansion plans. We are subject to regulations promulgated by the Massachusetts Division of Banks, as the chartering authority for Danversbank, and by the FDIC as the insurer of deposits up to certain limits. We also belong to the FHLBB, and as a member of such system we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the system. In addition, the Federal Reserve will continue to regulate Danvers Bancorp as a bank holding company. 45 Table of Contents Our business strategy could also be significantly impacted by Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act, which significantly expanded the responsibilities of financial institutions, including savings banks, in preventing the use of the United States financial system to fund terrorist activities. Among other provisions, the USA PATRIOT Act requires savings banks operating in the United States to develop new anti-money laundering compliance programs, due diligence policies and controls to ensure the detection and reporting of money laundering. These required compliance programs are intended to supplement existing compliance requirements, also applicable to financial institutions, under the Bank Secrecy Act and the Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulations. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC's insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Massachusetts's deceptive acts and practices law. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 46 Table of Contents 