ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions or beliefs that we believe to be reasonable; however, assumed facts almost always vary from the actual results and such variances can be material. Where we express an expectation or belief as to future results, that expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and is believed to have a reasonable basis. We cannot assure you, however, that the stated expectation or belief will occur. The words “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate” and similar expressions will generally identify forward-looking statements. All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these and other cautionary statements. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date provided. With this in mind, you should consider the risks discussed elsewhere in this report and other documents we file with the SEC from time to time and the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially, adversely affected. In that case, we may not be able to pay distributions on our common units and the trading price of our common units could decline materially. The risks referred to herein refer to risks inherent to our wholly-owned operations through WIC, SNG, SLNG and Elba Express and our majority-owned interest in CIG. Risks Inherent in Our Business The supply and demand for natural gas could be adversely affected by many factors outside of our control which could negatively affect us. Our success depends on the supply and demand for natural gas. The degree to which our business is impacted by changes in supply or demand varies. Our business can be negatively impacted by sustained downturns in supply and demand for natural gas, including reductions in our ability to renew pipeline transportation contracts on favorable terms and to construct new pipeline infrastructure. One of the major factors that will impact natural gas demand will be the potential growth of the demand for natural gas in the power generation market, particularly driven by the speed and level of existing coal-fired power generation that is replaced with natural gas-fired power generation. One of the major factors impacting natural gas supplies has been the significant growth in unconventional sources such as shale plays. In addition, the supply and demand for natural gas for our business will depend on many other factors outside of our control, which include, among others: • adverse changes in general global economic conditions. The level and speed of the recovery from the recent recession remains uncertain and could impact the supply and demand for natural gas and our future rate of growth in our business; • adverse changes in geopolitical factors, including the establishment of production levels by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), political unrest and changes in foreign governments in production regions of the world and unexpected wars, terrorist activities and others acts of aggression; • adverse changes in domestic regulations that could impact the supply or demand for natural gas; • technological advancements that may drive further increases in production and reduction in costs of developing natural gas shales; • competition from imported LNG and Canadian supplies and alternate fuels; • increased prices of natural gas or NGLs that could negatively impact demand for these products; • increased costs to explore for, develop, produce, gather, process and transport natural gas or NGLs; • adoption of various energy efficiency and conservation measures; and • perceptions of customers on the availability and price volatility of our services, particularly customers’ perceptions on the volatility of natural gas prices over the longer-term. 9 Table of Contents The prices for natural gas and NGLs could be adversely affected by many factors outside of our control which could negatively affect us. Natural gas and NGL prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current global geopolitical and economic conditions. There is a risk that commodity prices, which are at relatively low levels at this time, will remain depressed for sustained periods. Our business can be negatively impacted in the long-term by sustained depression in commodity prices for natural gas and NGLs including reductions in differentials between receipt and delivery points on our systems and in our ability to enter into or renew pipeline transportation contracts on favorable terms and to construct new pipeline infrastructure. The prices for natural gas and NGLs are subject to a variety of additional factors that are outside of our control, which include, among others: • changes in regional, domestic and international supply and demand; • volatile trading patterns in commodity-futures markets; • changes in basis differentials among different supply basins that can negatively impact the ability of our business to compete with supplies from other basins, including our ability to maintain pipeline transportation revenues and to enter into or renew transportation contracts in any supply basins that are not as competitive with other alternatives; • changes in the costs of exploring for, developing, producing, transporting, processing and marketing natural gas; • increased federal and state taxes, if any, on the sale or transportation of natural gas and NGLs; and • the price and availability of supplies of alternative energy sources. Our business is subject to competition from third parties which could negatively affect us. The natural gas pipeline business is highly competitive. We compete with other interstate and intrastate pipeline companies as well as gatherers and storage companies for the transportation and storage of natural gas. We also compete with suppliers of alternate energy sources such as coal and fuel oil. We frequently have one or more competitors in the supply basins and markets that we are connected to. This includes new pipeline systems that have recently been constructed from supply basins in which one or more of our pipelines are located and growing competition in many of the markets we serve. This competition could result in our inability to renew contracts and to maintain rates and transportation volumes, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our pipeline business depends on many factors beyond our control. The results of our pipeline business are impacted in the long term by the volumes of natural gas we transport or store and the prices we are able to charge for these services. The volumes of natural gas we are able to transport and store depend on the actions of third parties that are beyond our control. Such factors include events that negatively impact our customers’ demand for natural gas and could expose our pipelines to the risk that we will not be able to renew contracts at expiration or that will require us to discount our rates significantly upon renewal. We are also highly dependent on our customers and downstream pipelines to attach new and increased loads on their systems in order to grow our pipeline business. Further, state agencies that regulate our pipelines’ local distribution company customers could impose requirements that could impact demand for our pipelines’ services. The volume of gas that we are able to transport and store also depends on the availability of natural gas supplies that are accessible to our pipeline systems, including the need for producers to continue to develop additional natural gas supplies to offset the natural decline from existing wells connected to our systems. This requires the development of additional natural gas reserves, obtaining additional supplies from interconnecting pipelines, and the development of LNG facilities on or near our systems. There have been major shifts in supply basins over the last few years, especially with regard to the development of new natural gas shale plays and declining production from conventional sources of supplies as well as declining deliveries from Canada. A prolonged decline in energy prices could cause a decrease in these development activities and could cause a decrease in the volume of reserves available for transportation and storage through our systems. With the recent rapid growth of shale gas production in the U.S. and the subsequent drop in U.S. natural gas prices, the need and incentive to import LNG to U.S. regasification terminals has greatly diminished. Actual U.S. LNG imports are now at their lowest levels in several years. If shale gas production continues to grow as expected, imports of LNG to the U.S. will remain at minimal levels. Although our existing LNG import terminal is fully subscribed under long term fixed revenue contracts, extended periods of reduced levels of physical LNG imports could necessitate changes in how our LNG facility is operated to accommodate these potential low flow conditions. 10 Table of Contents Furthermore, our ability to deliver natural gas to our shippers is dependent upon their ability to purchase and deliver gas at various receipt points into our system. On occasion, particularly during extreme weather conditions, the gas delivered by our shippers at the receipt points into our system is less than the gas that they take at delivery points from our system. This can cause operational problems and can negatively impact our ability to meet our shippers’ demand. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and uninsured risks which could negatively affect us. Our operations are subject to a number of inherent operational hazards and uninsured risks such as: • Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, and/or other climate related matters — including extreme cold or heat, lightning and flooding, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes and other natural disasters. Although the potential effects of climate change on our operations (such as hurricanes, flooding, etc.) are uncertain at this time, changes in climate patterns as a result of global emissions of greenhouse gas (GHG) could also have a negative impact on our operations in the future, particularly with regard to any of our facilities that are located in or near the Gulf of Mexico and other coastal regions. • Acts of aggression on critical energy infrastructure—including terrorist activity or “cyber security” events. We are subject to the ongoing risk that one of these incidents may occur which could significantly impact our business operations and/or financial results. Should one of these events occur in the future, it could impact our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets, our operations could be disrupted, property could be damaged and/or customer information could be stolen resulting in substantial loss of revenues, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to reputation, increased regulation and litigation and/or inaccurate information reported from our operations to our financial applications, to our customers and to regulatory entities. • Other hazards—including the collision of third-party equipment with our infrastructure (such as damage caused to our underground pipelines by third party excavation); explosions, pipeline failures, mechanical and process safety failures, events causing our facilities to operate below expected levels of capacity or efficiency; uncontrollable flows of natural gas, release of pollution or contaminants into the environment (including discharges of toxic gases or substances) and other environmental hazards. Each of these risks could result in (a) damage or destruction of our facilities, (b) damages and injuries to persons and property or (c) business interruptions while damaged energy and/or technology infrastructure is repaired or replaced, each of which could cause us to suffer substantial losses. While we maintain insurance against some of these risks in amounts that we believe are reasonable, our insurance coverages have material deductibles, self-insurance levels, limits on our maximum recovery and do not cover all risks. For example, from time to time we may not carry, or may be unable to obtain on terms that we find acceptable, insurance coverage for certain exposures including, but not limited to, certain environmental exposures (including potential environmental fines and penalties), business interruption and named windstorm / hurricane exposures. The premiums and deductibles we pay for certain insurance policies are also subject to the risk of substantial increases over time that could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms. There is also a risk that our insurers may default on their coverage obligations or that amounts for which we are insured, or that the proceeds of such insurance will not compensate us fully for our losses. As a result, we could be adversely affected if a significant event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance. Certain of our pipeline systems’ transportation services are subject to “negotiated rate” contracts that may not allow us to recover our costs of providing the services. Under FERC policy, interstate pipelines and their customers may execute contracts at a negotiated rate which may be above or below the FERC-regulated recourse rate for that service. These negotiated rate contracts are generally not subject to adjustment for increased costs which could occur due to inflation, increase in cost of capital, taxes or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. It is possible that costs to perform services under negotiated rate contracts will exceed the negotiated rates. Any shortfall of revenue, representing the difference between recourse rates and negotiated rates could result in either losses or lower rates of return in providing such services. 11 Table of Contents The revenues of our pipeline business are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically. Substantially all of our pipeline revenues are generated under transportation and storage contracts which expire periodically and must be renegotiated, extended or replaced. If we are unable to extend or replace these contracts when they expire or renegotiate contract terms as favorable as the existing contracts, we could suffer a material reduction in our revenues, earnings and cash flows. For example, basis differentials between receipt and delivery points on our pipeline systems could decrease over time and thereby negatively impact our ability to renew contracts at rates that were previously in place. Our ability to extend and replace contracts could be adversely affected by factors we cannot control. In addition, changes in state regulation of local distribution companies may cause them to negotiate short-term contracts or turn back their capacity when their contracts expire. The expansion of our pipeline systems by constructing new facilities subjects us to construction and other risks that may adversely affect us. We frequently expand the capacity of our existing pipeline, storage or LNG facilities by constructing additional facilities. Construction of these facilities is subject to various regulatory, development and operational risks, including: • our ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits from the FERC and other regulatory agencies on a timely basis that are on terms that are acceptable to us, including the potential negative impact of delays and increased costs caused by general opposition to energy infrastructure development, especially in environmentally and culturally sensitive areas and more heavily populated areas; • the ability to access sufficient capital at reasonable rates to fund expansion projects, especially in periods of prolonged economic decline when we may be unable to access the capital markets; • the availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to complete expansion projects; • potential changes in federal, state and local statutes, regulations, and orders; • impediments on our ability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on terms that are acceptable to us; • our ability to construct projects within anticipated costs, including the risk that we may incur cost overruns resulting from weather conditions, geologic conditions, inflation or increased costs of equipment, materials (such as steel and nickel) and labor, contractor productivity, delays in construction due to various factors including delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or other factors beyond our control. These cost overruns could be material and we may not be able to recover such excess costs from our customers which could negatively impact our return on our investments; • our ability to construct projects within anticipated time frames that would likely delay our collection of transportation charges under our contracts; • the failure of suppliers and contractors to meet their performance and warranty obligations; and • the lack of transportation, storage or throughput commitments. Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. There is also the risk that a downturn in the economy and its negative impact upon natural gas demand may result in either slower development in the potential for future expansion projects or adjustments in the contractual commitments supporting such projects. As a result, new facilities may be delayed or may not achieve our expected investment return. We are subject to a complex set of laws and regulations from various agencies that regulate the energy industry. Such laws and regulations result in us incurring substantial compliance and remediation costs which impact the profitability of our pipeline business and our customers. Our pipeline businesses are extensively regulated by the FERC, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Department of Interior, the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and various state and local regulatory agencies who have the ability to issue regulations or enforcement orders that may adversely affect our profitability. Our operations are subject to a complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations that tend to change from time to time and generally are becoming more stringent. In addition to laws and regulations affecting our business, there are various laws and regulations that regulate various market practices in the industry, including antitrust laws and laws that prohibit fraud and manipulation in the markets in which we operate. The authority of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), FERC and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission to impose penalties for violations in these areas has generally increased over the last few years. 12 Table of Contents In addition, our business is subject to laws and regulations that govern environmental, health and safety matters. These regulations include compliance obligations for air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges and solid and hazardous waste disposal, as well as regulations designed for the protection of human health and safety and threatened or endangered species. Compliance obligations can result in significant costs to install and maintain pollution controls and to maintain measures to address personal and process safety and protection of the environment and animal habitat near our operations. We are often obligated to obtain permits or approvals in our operations from various federal, state and local authorities, which permits and approvals (including renewals thereof) can be denied or delayed. In addition, we are exposed to fines and penalties to the extent that we fail to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, as well as the potential for limitations to be imposed on our operations. These regulations often impose remediation obligations associated with the investigation or clean-up of contaminated properties, as well as damage claims arising out of the contamination of properties or impact on natural resources. Many of our assets are located and operate on federal, state, local or tribal lands and are typically regulated by one or more federal, state or local agencies. For example, we operate pipeline facilities that are located on federal lands located both onshore and offshore, which are regulated by the Department of the Interior, particularly by the Bureau of Land Management and the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation, and Enforcement. In addition, we also have pipeline operations on Native American tribal lands, which are regulated by the Department of the Interior, particularly by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, as well as local tribal authorities. Operations on these properties are often subject to additional regulations and compliance obligations, which can delay our access to such lands and impose additional compliance costs. In addition, the FERC regulates most aspects of our business, including the terms and conditions of services offered, our relationships with affiliates, construction and abandonment of facilities and the rates charged by our pipelines (including establishing authorized rates of return). Many of our pipelines periodically file to adjust the rates charged to their customers. There is a risk that the FERC may establish rates that are not acceptable to us and have a negative impact on us. In addition, the profitability of our pipeline systems is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. To the extent that such costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted to recover in our rates or to the extent that there is a lag before the pipeline can file and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact on our operating results. Our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. The FERC commenced several proceedings against pipeline systems and storage facilities to reduce the rates they were charging their customers. There is a risk that the FERC or our customers could file similar complaints on one or more of our pipeline systems and that a successful complaint against our pipeline rates could have an adverse impact on us. For example, the FERC recently initiated an investigation concerning the rates of our affiliate, Bear Creek. The FERC currently allows publicly traded partnerships to include in their cost-of-service an income tax allowance. Any changes to FERC’s treatment of income tax allowances in cost of service could result in lower recourse rates that could negatively impact our unitholders’ investment in us. The laws and regulations (and the interpretations thereof) that are applicable to our business could materially change in the future and increase the cost of our operations or otherwise negatively impact us. The regulatory framework affecting our business is frequently subject to change, with the risk that either new laws or regulations may be enacted or existing laws and regulations may be amended. Such new or amended laws and regulations can materially affect our operations and our financial results. In this regard, there have been proposals to adopt or amend federal, state, local and tribal laws and regulations that could negatively impact our business, which includes among others: • Climate Change and other Emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and several state environmental agencies have adopted regulations to regulate GHG emissions. It is uncertain at this time what impact the existing and proposed regulations will have on the demand for natural gas and on our operations. This will largely depend on what regulations are ultimately adopted, how the requirements of these regulations are implemented and incentives and subsidies provided to other fossil fuels, nuclear power and renewable energy sources. Although the EPA has adopted a tailoring rule to regulate GHG emissions, it is not expected to materially impact our existing operations until 2016. However, the tailoring rule is subject to judicial reviews and such reviews could result in the EPA being required to regulate GHG emissions at lower levels that could subject many of our larger facilities to regulation prior to 2016. There have also been various legislative and regulatory proposals and final rules at the federal and state levels to address air emissions from power plants and industrial boilers. Although such rules and proposals will generally favor the use of natural gas over other 13 Table of Contents fossil fuels such as coal, it remains uncertain what regulations will ultimately be adopted and when they will be adopted. Finally, there have been other various environmental regulatory proposals that could increase the cost of our environmental liabilities as well as increase our future compliance costs. For example, the EPA has proposed more stringent emission standards with regard to oil and gas operations that will affect our operations. In addition, any regulations would likely increase our costs of compliance by potentially delaying the receipt of permits and other regulatory approvals, requiring us to monitor emissions, install additional equipment or modification facilities to reduce GHG and other emissions, to purchase emission credits, and utilize electric-driven compression at facilities to obtain regulatory permits and approvals in a timely manner. While we may be able to include some or all of the costs associated with our environmental liabilities and environmental compliance in the rates charged by our pipelines, our ability to recover such costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond our control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final regulations and legislation. • Renewable / Conservation Legislation. There have been various legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels to provide incentives and subsidies to (a) shift more power generation to renewable energy sources and (b) support technological advances to drive less energy consumption. These incentives and subsidies could have a negative impact on natural gas consumption and thus have negative impacts on our operations and financial results. • Pipeline Safety. New federal legislation was enacted in December 2011 associated with pipeline safety and integrity issues including changes that require installation of additional valves and other equipment on our pipelines and potential expansion of high consequence areas. The legislation requires the U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration to conduct various studies, which may ultimately result in additional regulations which could negatively impact our operations. • Tax Policies. Various federal legislation has been proposed to materially revise the tax provisions associated with the energy industry. For example, previous proposed changes have included changes to the taxation of carried interests, which could potentially change the taxation of sales or exchange of partnership interests such as ours. There have also been proposals to simplify the tax code by generally eliminating deductions and reducing the effective corporate and individual tax rates, which could negatively impact the tax allowance in our FERC-approved pipeline rates and impact the return and yield expectations of our investors. It is unclear whether these or other changes will be enacted and if enacted when they will become effective. Any such changes could negatively impact us. Our pipeline systems depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of their revenues and the loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in our revenues. In addition, we are exposed to the credit risk of our counterparties and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. We are subject to the risk of our counterparties failing to make payments to us, which may include payments not being received within the time required under our contracts. Our current largest exposures are associated with shippers under long-term transportation contracts on our pipeline systems. Our systems rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our systems’ revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the four largest customers for each of WIC, CIG, SNG, SLNG and Elba Express accounted for approximately 72 percent, 64 percent, 61 percent, 100 percent and 100 percent of their respective operating revenues. The creditworthiness of our customers may be adversely impacted by negative effects in the economy, including low natural gas prices which can reduce liquidity and cash flows for some of our customers that produce natural gas. The loss of all or a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions, or replacements of contracts, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our credit procedures and policies that are governed by the FERC may not be adequate to fully eliminate counterparty credit risk. In addition, in certain situations, we may assume certain additional credit risks for competitive reasons or otherwise. If our existing or future counterparties fail to pay and/or perform, we could be adversely affected. For example, we may not be able to effectively remarket capacity during and after insolvency proceedings involving a customer. 14 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit and performance risk of our key contractors and suppliers. As an owner of large energy infrastructure facilities with significant capital expenditures in our business, we rely on contractors for certain construction and on suppliers for key materials, supplies and services, including steel mills, pipe and other manufacturers. There is a risk that such contractors and suppliers may experience credit and performance issues that could adversely impact their ability to perform their contractual obligations with us, including their performance and warranty obligations. This could result in delays or defaults in performing such contractual obligations and increased costs to seek replacement contractors, each of which could adversely impact us. The costs to maintain, repair and replace our pipeline systems may exceed our expected levels. Much of our pipeline infrastructure was constructed many years ago. The age of these assets may result in them being more costly to maintain and repair. We may also be required to replace certain facilities over time. In addition, our pipeline assets may be subject to the risk of failures or other incidents due to factors outside of our control (including third party excavation near our pipelines, unexpected degradation of our pipelines, unexpected erosion of soil as well as design, construction or manufacturing defects) that could result in personal injury or property damages. Much of our pipeline system is located in populated areas which increases the level of such risks. Such incidents could also result in unscheduled outages or periods of reduced operating flows which could result in a loss of our ability to serve our customers and a loss of revenues. Although we are targeted to complete our pipeline integrity program which includes the development and use of in-line inspection tools in high consequence areas by its required completion date at the end of 2012, we will continue to incur substantial expenditures beyond 2012 relating to the integrity and safety of our pipelines. In addition, there is a risk that new regulations or other regulatory actions associated with pipeline safety and integrity issues will be adopted that could require us to incur additional material expenditures in the future. We are also subject to inherent risk associated with operating storage facilities, including potential risk of gas losses and field degradation. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located. We are subject to the risk that we do not have valid rights-of-way, that such rights-of-way may lapse or terminate or our facilities may not be properly located within the boundaries of such rights-of-way. Our loss of or interference with these rights could have a material adverse effect on us. There are accounting principles that are unique to regulated interstate pipeline assets that could materially impact our recorded earnings. Accounting policies for FERC regulated pipelines are in certain instances different from U.S. GAAP for nonregulated entities. For example, we are permitted to record certain regulatory assets on our balance sheet that would not be recorded for nonregulated entities. In determining whether to account for regulatory assets on each of our pipelines, we consider various factors including regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of recovery of these assets. Currently, all of our pipeline systems have regulatory assets recorded on their balance sheets. If we determine that future recovery is no longer probable for any of our pipeline systems, then we could be required to write off the regulatory assets in the future. In addition, we capitalize a carrying cost (AFUDC) on equity funds related to our construction of long-lived assets. Equity amounts capitalized are included as other income on our income statement. We periodically evaluate the applicability of accounting standards related to regulated operations, and consider factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition. If cost-based regulation ends or competition increases, we may have to evaluate our assets for impairment and write-off the associated regulatory assets and our future earnings could be impacted. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of such workforce could result in the failure to implement our business plans. We are managed and operated by El Paso and its affiliates. Such operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. El Paso competes with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce. In addition, many of El Paso’s current employees are retirement eligible, 15 Table of Contents which have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees. If El Paso is unable to (a) retain their current employees, (b) successfully complete the knowledge transfer and/or (c) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. In addition, we could experience increased allocated costs to retain and recruit these professionals. See Risks Related to Proposed KMI Purchase of El Paso. We have certain contingent liabilities that could exceed our estimates. We have certain contingent liabilities associated with litigation, regulatory and environmental matters. We are involved in various lawsuits in which we or our subsidiaries have been sued (see Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 9). Although we believe that we have established appropriate reserves for these litigation, regulatory and environmental liabilities, we could be required to accrue additional amounts in the future and these amounts could be material. Risks Related to Our Liquidity We depend on distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our needs. We have no significant assets other than our ownership interests in our operating subsidiaries. We are dependent on the earnings and cash flows, dividends, loans or other distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations. Applicable law and contractual restrictions (including restrictions in certain of our subsidiaries’ credit facilities and the rights of certain creditors of our subsidiaries that would often be superior to our interests) may negatively impact our ability to obtain such distributions from our subsidiaries. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may increase cash distributions during periods when we experience reductions in net income for financial accounting purposes and may reduce cash distributions during periods when we experience increases in net income for financial accounting purposes. We have significant existing debt which requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to service our debt payment obligations, as well as reduces our flexibility to respond to changing circumstances. We have significant debt, debt service and debt maturity obligations. This requires us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general partnership purposes, as well as distributions to our unitholders. In addition, these debt levels expose us to liquidity and default risks, especially during times of financial volatility and reduced commodity prices. We have significant capital programs in our business that require us to access capital markets frequently and any inability to do so in the future at competitive rates could have a negative impact on us. We have extensive capital programs in our business, which requires us to frequently access the capital markets. Although the markets have become less volatile than they were in recent years, volatility in the financial market remains. Our cost of capital could be negatively impacted in the future if we are unable to successfully raise capital in the capital markets. This could require us to forego capital opportunities, make those opportunities less attractive to us or make us less competitive in our pursuit of growth opportunities. 16 Table of Contents Our current and future debt and associated borrowing costs can be negatively impacted by the ratings assigned to our debt facilities and securities, the credit and risk profile of our general partner and its owner, El Paso, which could have a negative impact upon us. Our credit ratings may be adversely affected by the leverage of our general partner or El Paso, as credit rating agencies may consider the leverage and credit profile of El Paso and its affiliates because of their ownership interest in and control of us and the strong operational links between El Paso and us. Rating Agency Moody’sInvestorService Standard &Poor’s FitchRatings Credit Rating EPB Ba1(2) BB(2) BBB-(1) El Paso Pipeline Partners Operating Company, L.L.C. (EPPOC). Ba1(2) BB(2) BBB–(1) SNG/CIG Baa3(1) BB(2) BBB-(1) El Paso Ba3(2) BB-(2) BB+(2) (1) Investment grade. (2) Below investment grade. These ratings have increased our cost of capital and our operating costs in comparison to some of our peers. There is a risk that these credit ratings may be adversely affected in the future as the credit rating agencies review their general credit requirements as well as review our leverage, liquidity, credit profile, and potential transactions. Following the announcement of El Paso’s proposed merger with KMI, Moody’s and Fitch adjusted their view of El Paso to a negative outlook, and Moody’s adjusted their view of EPB, EPPOC, CIG and SNG to a negative outlook. Any reduction in our credit rating could also impact our cost of capital. Any reduction in our credit rating could also negatively impact the credit rating of our subsidiaries, which could also increase their cost of capital. It could also impact our ability, as well as the ability of our subsidiaries, to access the capital markets. Although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt instruments, as well as the market value of our units. A breach of the covenants applicable to our debt and other financing obligations could affect our ability to borrow funds, could accelerate our debt and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our debt and other financing obligations contain restrictive covenants and require us to maintain certain financial ratios, including debt to earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and EBITDA to interest expense in our note purchase agreements and contain cross default provisions. Volatility in the financial markets and a reduction in access to capital could cause these covenants to become more restrictive over time. A breach of any of these covenants could preclude us or our subsidiaries from issuing letters of credit, from borrowing under our credit agreements and could accelerate our debt and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries. If this were to occur, we might not be able to repay such debt and other financing obligations. Restrictions in our credit facility and note purchase agreement could limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our credit facility and the note purchase agreement related to our issuance of senior unsecured notes contain covenants limiting our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and equity repurchases. Our ability to comply with any restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If we are unable to comply with these restrictions and covenants, a significant portion of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facility or the note purchase agreement may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us under our credit facility may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Our payment of principal and interest on any future indebtedness will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Further, our credit facility limits our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders during an event of default or if an event of default would result from the distribution. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to interest rate risks. Although a substantial portion of our debt capital structure has fixed interest rates, changes in market conditions, including potential increases in the deficits of foreign, federal and state governments, could have a negative impact on interest rates that could cause our financing costs to increase. Since interest rates are at historically low levels, it is anticipated that they will increase in the future. Rising interest rates could also negatively impact our unitholders’ investment in us, as changes in interest rates may affect the yield requirements of investors in our units. It may also negatively impact our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, to incur debt or for other purposes. Risks Inherent in Our Structure and Relationship with El Paso Our ability to continue to acquire interests in interstate pipelines from El Paso could be negatively impacted by various factors that would reduce our growth opportunities. An important source of our growth in the past and potentially in the future is the purchase of interests in interstate pipelines from El Paso. As the owner of our general partner, El Paso is entitled to incentive distribution rights (IDRs). El Paso is currently entitled to receive the maximum level of IDRs. Our ability to purchase additional interests on an accretive basis to the limited partner unitholders may be negatively impacted by such IDRs unless El Paso elects to reduce the level of the IDRs as provided for in the partnership agreement. In addition, as the owner of the general partner of the partnership, El Paso could also be subject to claims associated with conflicts of interest and breach of fiduciary duties. Although the partnership agreements expressly define and limit its obligations as the general partner, if any conflicts of interest or breach of fiduciary duties are found, then our ability to purchase additional interests in interstate pipeline assets from El Paso could be negatively impacted. We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash, which may limit cash available to service the notes or to repay them at maturity. Unlike a corporation, EPB’s partnership agreement requires EPB to distribute, on a quarterly basis, 100 percent of its available cash to its unitholders of record and its general partner. Available cash is generally defined as all of EPB’s cash-on-hand as of the end of a fiscal quarter, adjusted for cash distributions and net changes to reserves. EPB’s general partner will determine the amount and timing of such distributions and has broad discretion to establish and make additions to its reserves or the reserves of EPB’s operating subsidiaries in amounts it determines in its reasonable discretion to be necessary or appropriate: • to provide for the proper conduct of our business and the businesses of EPB’s operating subsidiaries (including reserves for future capital expenditures and for EPB’s anticipated future credit needs); • to reimburse EPB’s general partner for all expenses it has incurred on EPB’s behalf; • to provide funds for distributions to EPB’s unitholders and its general partner for any one or more of the next four calendar quarters; or • to comply with applicable law or any of EPB’s loan or other agreements. El Paso controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates, including El Paso, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. El Paso owns and controls our general partner, and appoints all of the directors of our general partner. Some of our general partner’s directors, and some of its executive officers, are directors or officers of El Paso or its affiliates. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to El Paso. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between El Paso and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. 18 Table of Contents Affiliates of our general partner, including El Paso and its other subsidiaries, are not limited in their ability to compete with us and are not obligated to offer us the opportunity to pursue additional assets or businesses, which could limit our commercial activities or our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement among us, El Paso and others will prohibit affiliates of our general partner, including El Paso, El Paso Natural Gas Company (EPNG), Cheyenne Plains Gas Pipeline Company, L.L.C. (Cheyenne Plains), Bear Creek, Ruby Pipeline, L.L.C. and TGP, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, El Paso and its affiliates may acquire, construct or dispose of additional transportation or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Each of these entities is a large, established participant in the interstate pipeline and/or storage business, and each may have greater resources than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with these entities with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from these entities could adversely impact us. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or its board of directors, and will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, will be chosen entirely by its owners and not by the unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at such annual meetings of stockholders. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution. Pursuant to an omnibus agreement we entered into with El Paso, our general partner and certain of its affiliates, El Paso and its affiliates will receive reimbursement for the payment of operating and capital expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit, including costs for rendering administrative staff and support services to us, and overhead allocated to us, including pension and health care costs which amounts will be determined by the general partner in good faith. Payments for these services will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, WIC reimburses CIG for the costs incurred to operate and maintain the WIC system pursuant to an operating agreement. CIG also reimburses certain of its affiliates for costs incurred and services it receives (primarily from EPNG and TGP) and receives reimbursements for costs incurred and services it provides to other affiliates (primarily Cheyenne Plains and Young Gas Storage Company Ltd.). In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. The limitation and definition of these duties is permitted by the Delaware law governing limited partnerships. In addition, the limited liability company agreement of CIG contains similar provisions that define the fiduciary standards of each member (a subsidiary of El Paso owns a 14 percent interest in CIG and we own an 86 percent interest in CIG) to the other. In addition, the limited liability agreement includes provisions that define the fiduciary standards that the members of the management committee of CIG appointed by a member owe to the member that did not designate such person. The defined fiduciary standards are more limited than those that would apply under Delaware law in the absence of such definition. 19 Table of Contents Limited unitholders cannot remove our general partner without its consent. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3 percent of all outstanding common units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Our unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because affiliates of our general partner own sufficient units to be able to prevent the general partner’s removal. In addition, under certain circumstances the successor general partner may be required to purchase the combined general partner interest and incentive distribution rights of the removed general partner, or alternatively, such interests will be converted into common units. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or holders of our common units. This may result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations. Our general partner has the right, at a time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48 percent) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, our general partner will be entitled to receive a number of Class B common units. The Class B common units will be entitled to the same cash distributions per unit as our common units and will be convertible into an equal number of common units. The number of Class B common units to be issued will be equal to that number of common units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our Class B common units, which are entitled to receive cash distributions from us on the same priority as our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new Class B common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our general partner incentive distribution rights. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of our general partner from transferring their member interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of the general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of the general partner. This effectively permits a change of control of the partnership without unitholders’ vote or consent. In addition, pursuant to the omnibus agreement with El Paso, any new owner of the general partner would be required to change our name so that there would be no further reference to El Paso. If we are deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our assets consist of a 100 percent ownership interest in WIC, SNG, SLNG and Elba Express and an 86 percent interest in CIG. If a sufficient amount of our assets acquired in the future, are deemed to be “investment securities” within the meaning of the 20 Table of Contents Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The occurrence of some or all of these events would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, treatment of us as an investment company would prevent our qualification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes in which case we would be treated as a corporation. As a result, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as an investment company would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. We may issue additional units without approval which would dilute existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • each unitholder’s proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • new classes of securities could be issued that provide preferences to the new class in relation to existing unitholders, including preferences on distributions of available cash, distributions upon our liquidation and voting rights; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 75 percent of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders would be required to sell common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on investment. Unitholders might also incur a tax liability upon a sale of such units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our general partner and its affiliates own approximately 42 percent of our outstanding common units at December 31, 2011. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders ability to influence the manner or direction of management. 21 Table of Contents Unitholder liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if a court or government agency determined that: • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • unitholders’ right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public or private markets, including sales by affiliates of our general partner. As of February 20, 2012, we had 205,698,750 common units outstanding, which includes 88,400,059 common units held by affiliates of our general partner. Sales by any of our existing unitholders, including affiliates of our general partner, of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Under our partnership agreement, our general partner and its affiliates have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any units that they hold, subject to certain limitations. Risks Related to our Senior Unsecured Notes The notes are unsecured obligations of EPPOC and not guaranteed by any of its subsidiaries. As such, the notes are effectively junior to EPPOC’s existing and future secured debt and to all debt and other liabilities of its subsidiaries. The notes are EPPOC’s unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of its other existing and future unsubordinated debt. All of EPPOC’s operating assets are in subsidiaries of EPPOC, and none of these subsidiaries guarantee EPPOC’s obligations with respect to the notes. Creditors of EPPOC’s subsidiaries have claims with respect to the assets of those subsidiaries that rank effectively senior to the notes. In the event of any distribution or payment of assets of such subsidiaries in any dissolution, winding up, liquidation, reorganization or other bankruptcy proceeding, the claims of those creditors would be satisfied prior to making any such distribution or payment to EPPOC in respect of its direct or indirect equity interests in such subsidiaries. Consequently, after satisfaction of the claims of such creditors, there may be little or no amounts left available to make payments in respect of the notes. As of December 31, 2011, the notes were effectively subordinated to approximately $2.0 billion of outstanding indebtedness of EPPOC’s subsidiaries. Furthermore, such subsidiaries are not prohibited under the indenture from incurring additional indebtedness. In addition, because the notes and the guarantee of the notes by EPB are unsecured, holders of any secured indebtedness of EPPOC or EPB would have claims with respect to the assets constituting collateral for such indebtedness that are senior to the claims of the holders of the notes. Currently, neither EPPOC nor EPB have any secured indebtedness. Although the indenture governing the notes places some limitations on the ability of EPPOC to create liens securing debt, there are significant exceptions to these limitations, which allow us to secure significant amounts of indebtedness without equally and ratably securing the notes. If EPPOC or EPB incur secured indebtedness and such indebtedness is either accelerated or becomes subject to a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, the assets of EPPOC or EPB would be used to satisfy obligations with respect to the indebtedness secured thereby before any payment could be made on the notes. Consequently, any such secured indebtedness would effectively be senior to the notes and the guarantee of the notes by EPB, to the extent of the value of the collateral securing the secured indebtedness. In that event, the noteholders may not be able to recover all the principal or interest that is due under the notes. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of a change of control trigger event, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101 percent of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control trigger event because we may not have sufficient funds. Further, we may be contractually restricted under the terms of our revolving credit facility or other future senior indebtedness from repurchasing all of the notes tendered by holders upon a change of control. Accordingly, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to purchase the notes unless we are able to refinance or obtain waivers under our credit facilities. Our failure to repurchase the notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the indenture and a cross-default under our revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility provides that a change of control, as defined in such agreement, will be a default that permits lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder and limiting our ability to purchase the notes, and reducing the practical benefit of the offer to purchase provisions to the holders of the notes. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. In addition, the change of control provisions in the indenture may not protect the noteholders from certain important corporate events, such as a leveraged recapitalization (which would increase the level of our indebtedness), reorganization, restructuring, merger or other similar transaction. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the notes and our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure the noteholders that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. We cannot assure the noteholders that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our credit agreement and the indenture that will govern the notes. In the absence of such cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our revolving credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to dispose of assets. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and any proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations when due. Risks Related to Proposed KMI Purchase of El Paso Our General Partner is owned by El Paso, which recently announced an agreement to merge with KMI, which owns the general partner of KMP. KMI’s ownership of us and KMP may result in conflicts of interest. El Paso entered into definitive agreements with KMI, which provide for a series of transactions whereby KMI will acquire El Paso. The closing of the merger is subject to various conditions precedent. As a result, there is a risk that the acquisition may not be completed. In addition, prior to closing, various restrictions are imposed in the definitive agreements on the sale of assets owned by El Paso, which could restrict the ability of El Paso to sell its interests in pipeline assets to us prior to the closing of the merger. Our ability to purchase interests in El Paso’s pipeline assets after the closing of the merger is also uncertain. KMI owns the general partner of KMP, which also owns other interstate natural gas pipelines. KMI has indicated its intention to sell certain of the interstate pipelines owned by El Paso to KMP and to EPB. As a result, we may compete with KMP for the dropdown of interstate pipeline assets owned by El Paso following the acquisition of El Paso by KMI. Following the completion of the merger of KMI and El Paso, the directors and officers of our general partner and its affiliates will have duties to manage our general partner in a manner that is beneficial to KMI who would be the sole owner of our general partner. At the same time, our general partner will have duties to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to our unitholders. Therefore, following the completion of the merger, our general partner’s duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to KMI. As a result of these conflicts of interest following the merger, our general partner may favor its own interest or the interests of KMI or KMP, or their owners or affiliates over the interest of our unitholders. Additional conflicts may also arise in the future following the merger associated with (1) the allocation of capital and the allocation of costs among KMP and us, (2) the 23 Table of Contents amount of time devoted by the officers and directors of KMI to the business of KMP in relation to us and (3) the future business opportunities that are pursued in KMP and us. Specifically, certain conflicts may arise as a result of KMI pursuing acquisitions or development opportunities in KMP that may also be advantageous to us. If we are limited in our ability to pursue such opportunities, we may not realize all or any of the commercial value of such opportunities. The recently announced merger of El Paso and Kinder Morgan is subject to regulatory approvals which could require us to divest certain of our assets. The merger of El Paso and Kinder Morgan is subject to various regulatory approvals, including approvals from the Federal Trade Commission. The FTC may impose certain restrictions or obligations on our businesses as conditions for their approval of the merger, which could include requiring the divestiture of certain of our assets or businesses in order to obtain such approvals. Any required divestiture of assets could have a material impact on our business, including our ability to grow our business and distributions. Pending the completion of the merger, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on El Paso’s employees may have an adverse effect on us. This uncertainty may impair El Paso’s ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel until the merger is completed. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger, as employees may feel uncertain about their future roles with the combined company. If El Paso’s employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to become employees of the combined company, it could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results. In connection with the pending merger, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the merger, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our common units, regardless of whether the merger is completed. Failure to successfully combine and integrate the organizations and processes of El Paso and KMI may adversely affect us. KMI has announced that it expects to realize certain anticipated benefits and synergies as part of its acquisition of El Paso. However, if KMI and El Paso do not successfully integrate their operations, we may not realize any such benefits. Furthermore, the integration of two organizations and their processes and systems inherently involve risks, including ensuring maintaining effective compliance with laws and regulations as well as effective internal controls over financial reporting. Following consummation of the El Paso and KMI merger, our credit ratings could be adversely affected, which may increase our borrowing costs. KMI will have considerably higher aggregate levels of indebtedness due to the debt incurred to finance the transaction. There can be no assurance that the credit ratings of KMI will not be subject to downgrade. Our credit ratings may be adversely affected in the event of any downgrade of KMI’s ratings in the light of the ownership interest and operational control of us following the merger. Any reduction in our credit ratings could also negatively impact the credit rating of our subsidiaries. Any of such actions by the credit rating agencies could increase our cost of capital and that of our subsidiaries, as well as negatively impact our ability to access the capital markets. It could also have a negative impact on the market value of our units. 24 Table of Contents Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by states. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation or if we become subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available to pay distributions would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation. Because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state was to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available to pay distributions would be reduced. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Recently, members of the U.S. Congress considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would have affected the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws or interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these changes or any other proposals will ultimately be enacted, any changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. 25 Table of Contents We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. An IRS challenge of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all the positions we take. Any challenge by the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders and our general partner and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. Unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than cash we distribute, they will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not cash is distributed from us. Cash distributions may not equal a unitholder’s share of our taxable income or even equal the actual tax liability that results from the unitholder’s share of our taxable income. The tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. If our unitholders sell units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to them in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a common unit, which decreased their tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to them if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, regardless of whether such amount represents gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to our unitholders due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, if they sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax-exempt entities or foreign persons should consult their tax advisor regarding their investment in our common units. 26 Table of Contents We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from their sale of our common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to their tax returns. We may adopt certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our methodologies subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profits interests during any 12-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of their investment in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance, or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose an income tax. It is the unitholder’s responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 