Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves many risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Form 10-K before making an investment decision. Additional risks related to us and our securities may be included in our other filings with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Associated with our Business We have a limited operating history, and our business may not be as successful as we envision. We are currently in an early stage of our current business plan. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. Therefore, our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the initial expenses, challenges, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the renewable industry in general. Investors should evaluate an investment in our company in light of the problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies attempting to develop markets for new products, services and technologies. Despite best efforts, we may never overcome these obstacles to achieve financial success. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our business plan, as well as our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for necessary financing, the provision of necessary feedstock sources, engineering, procurement and construction services and the sale and distribution of our products on terms that will be commercially viable for us. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or result in revenue or profit. There is no assurance that we will earn significant revenues or that our investors will not lose their entire investment. We have yet to attain profitable operations and we will need additional financing to fund our activities. We are dependent upon our ability to obtain sufficient financing to continue our development and operational activities. The ability to achieve profitable operations is in direct correlation to our ability to raise sufficient financing. It is important to note that even if the appropriate financing is received, there is no guarantee that we will ever be able to operate profitably or derive any significant revenues from our operation. We will be required to raise additional financing to fully implement our entire business plan. Our lack of diversification beyond the renewable energy industry may increase our risk. We expect our primary source of revenue will come from renewable energy assets that generate cash flow from the sale of biomass-created energy and water handling services associated with the oil and gas industry. Any diminution in the value of our assets or decrease in operating revenues could negatively affect our ability to become profitable. Further, the illiquid nature of the assets we own and intend to purchase could jeopardize our ability to satisfy our working capital needs or impair our ability to meet any debt obligations that may become due. We may not be able to effectively manage our acquisition and construction costs. We may suffer from increasing costs in retrofitting current acquisitions. For example, while we have completed the acquisition of a biomass plant located in Mesquite Lake, California, substantial costs will be incurred in retrofitting and repairing this plant in a manner that will allow commercial operations. While we have attempted to project such costs, changes in engineering scope, increases in construction, labor, or capital expenses could impair our ability to successfully achieve our investment objectives. 13 Table of Contents We have significant debt that could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a relatively high amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness of approximately 9.1 million. Because we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on our debt, that portion of our cash flow is not available for other purposes. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired by our leverage and existing debt covenants. Our indebtedness could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; • force us to sell assets or seek additional capital to service our indebtedness, which we may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • and limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We are dependent upon our key personnel. Our operations and financial success will significantly depend on our managerial personnel. Our managerial personnel have the right to make all decisions with respect to management and operation of our business and affairs. We are dependent on the executive officers and key personnel of GreenHunter and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we lose members of our management team. We have not entered into any employment agreements with any of our management personnel nor have we obtained “key man” life insurance on any of their lives. Further, our officers’ and directors’ allocation of their time to other business interests could have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our business objectives. All of our officers are required to commit their full work hour time to our business affairs, with the exception of Gary C. Evans, our Chief Executive Officer, and David S. Krueger, our Chief Financial Officer, who maintain officer and director positions and relationships with other public companies. For a discussion regarding the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the risk factor below regarding conflicts of interest of our officers and directors. We may not be able to meet our capital requirements. Capital expenditures to build and operate our biomass plant and potential water handling facilities, hiring qualified management and key employees, complying with licensing, registration and other requirements, maintaining compliance with applicable laws, production and marketing activities, administrative requirements, such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, legal compliance costs and accounting expenses, will all require a substantial amount of additional capital and cash flow. We will be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects, which may include a profit sharing component, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that we will be successful in locating a suitable financing or strategic business combination transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely, and they may be dilutive to the existing shareholders as we issue additional shares of common stock to investors in future financing transactions and as these financings trigger anti-dilution adjustments in existing equity-linked securities. Also, the terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, and the issuances of incentive awards under employee equity incentive plans, all of which may have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We 14 Table of Contents may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets, both generally and specifically in the renewable energy industry and the fact that we are a new enterprise without a proven operating history. Some of the contractual arrangements governing our operations may require us to maintain minimum capital, and we may lose our contract rights if we do not have the required minimum capital. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, are not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. Risks Related to the Renewable Energy Industry We have not currently identified specific future investments or acquisitions within the renewable energy industry and thus cannot evaluate their associated merits or risks. Since we are not limited to any particular target business in the renewable energy industry within which to operate or complete an acquisition or business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of any future business we may operate. We may complete a business combination in the future with a company in any business we choose in the renewable energy industry (e.g., wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and clean water), and we are not limited to any particular type of business. While our recent transactions are described in our filings with the SEC, there is minimal current information for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any other target businesses which we may acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company, a company with unknown or non-quantifiable risks or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of such entity. Further acquisitions or business combinations with an entity in the renewable energy industry would be characterized by a high level of risk, and we may be adversely affected by currently unascertainable risks of that business. Although our management team will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. The abundant competition and rapidly changing technology in the renewable energy industry may impair our success. The renewable energy marketplace is highly fragmented, competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and we may be unable to successfully compete. Evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and rapid product obsolescence also impact the market. We currently compete in the market for renewable energy products and services and against companies that are better capitalized than us. Our competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Our current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies, products or services with features that could render our technologies, products or services obsolete or less marketable. Our success will be dependent upon our ability to develop superior energy products in a cost effective manner. In addition, we may be required to continually enhance any products that are developed as well as introduce new products that keep pace with technological change and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of the marketplace. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully develop products that will succeed in the marketplace. Changes to the currently favorable regulations and legislation within the renewable energy industry may adversely impact our future revenues. The favorable legislative and regulatory climate for the renewable energy industry may not continue. The viability of our renewable energy projects will be in large part dependent upon the continuation of a favorable legislative and regulatory climate with respect to the continuing operations and the future growth and development of the renewable energy industry. Government regulations, subsidies, incentives and the market design have a favorable impact on the construction of renewable energy facilities. If the current government regulations, subsidy and incentive programs or the design of the market are significantly modified or delayed, our projects may be 15 Table of Contents adversely affected, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Internal Revenue Code currently provides for income tax credits for electricity produced and sold from qualified biomass and wind energy projects. These credits, which were to expire for biodiesel fuels after December 31, 2008, and for qualified wind energy projects placed in service on or after December 31, 2008, have been extended for one year as part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-343). The credits available for biomass and wind energy are discussed below. The elimination or significant reduction in these tax credits could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The pricing of renewable energy may fluctuate due to the level of production of renewable energy. We believe that the production of renewable energy fuels is expanding rapidly, especially in the United States. There are a number of new plants under construction and planned for construction. We expect existing renewable energy fuel and biopower plants to expand by increasing production capacity and actual production. Increases in the demand for renewable energy fuels and biopower may not be commensurate with increasing supplies of renewable energy fuels or power. Thus, increased production of renewable energy fuels or power may lead to lower renewable energy fuel prices. The increased production of renewable energy fuels and power could also have other adverse effects. For example, increased renewable energy fuels production could lead to increased supplies of co-products from the production of renewable energy fuels. Those increased supplies could lead to lower prices for those co-products. Also, the increased production of renewable energy fuels could result in increased demand for renewable energy fuel supplies. This could result in higher prices for such supplies and cause higher renewable energy fuels production costs, which would result in lower profits. We cannot predict the future price of renewable energy fuels or biopower. Any material decline in the price of renewable energy fuels or power will adversely affect our sales and profitability. Construction and development delays or cost over-runs may adversely affect our business. Absent a successful business combination or acquisition, the ability of GreenHunter to generate revenues will depend upon the successful completion of the restoration or development, construction and operations of our biomass plant. Such development requires capital equipment being manufactured, shipped to our project sites, installed and tested. In addition, we will be required to build or purchase and install interconnection facilities and other infrastructure. There is a risk that the construction phase may not be completed, that construction may be substantially delayed, or that material cost over-runs may be incurred, which may result in GreenHunter being unable to meet profit expectations. 16 Table of Contents We would be liable for violations of environmental laws related to our ownership or operation of our facilities. Federal, state and local laws impose liability on a landowner for releases or the otherwise improper presence on the premises of hazardous substances. This liability is without regard to fault for, or knowledge of, the presence of such substances. A landowner may be held liable for hazardous materials brought onto the property before it acquired title and for hazardous materials that are not discovered until after it sells the property. Similar liability may occur under applicable state law. In addition, we could face environmental liability for violations on or related to facilities we lease or otherwise use unrelated to ownership. If any hazardous materials are found within the operations of GreenHunter and are in violation of the law at any time, we may be liable for all cleanup costs, fines, penalties and other costs. This potential liability will continue after we sell or cease operations on any subject properties and may apply to hazardous materials present within the properties before we acquired or commence use of them. If significant losses arise from hazardous substance contamination, our financial viability may be substantially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to the Biomass Industry The inherent volatility in the market price of electricity could impact our profitability. Our potential revenues, income and cash flow are subject to volatility in the market price for electricity. Our ability to generate revenue has exposure to movements in the market price of electricity, as sales to the power market are likely to be made at prevailing market prices. The market price of electricity is sensitive to cyclical changes in demand and capacity supply, and in the economy, as well as to regulatory trends and developments impacting electricity market rules and pricing, transmission development and investment within the United States and to the power markets in other jurisdictions via interconnects and other external factors outside of our control. Energy from biomass facilities must be taken “as delivered” which necessitates the use of other system resources to keep the demand and supply of electric energy in balance. Accordingly, the potential revenue, income and cash flow may be volatile and adversely affect our value. Any inability or delay in updating or obtaining required licenses and permits could hinder development and adversely affect profitability. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses and permits to operate our business. GreenHunter may not necessarily hold all of the licenses and permits required in connection with the construction and operation of our biomass plant and potential clean water projects. The failure to obtain all necessary licenses or permits, including renewals or modifications, could result in construction delays of any of our projects or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter. Our inability to enter interconnection agreements would restrict our ability to sell electricity. We may be unable to enter into necessary interconnection agreements. GreenHunter will be required to enter into certain interconnection agreements with electric utilities prior to selling electricity. The failure to enter into such interconnection agreements on terms that are acceptable to us could have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter. Fixed payments under the power purchase agreement The payments made by the district to GreenHunter Mesquite Lake under the power purchase agreement for energy are at an energy rate that is specified and fixed for each contract year. Other than the different rates that are specified with respect to different contract years, such payments are not subject to any other adjustment for increases in operating or fuel costs or other customary factors, as may be provided for in other output contracts. Certain costs relating to operations, fuel or other expenses may increase at a faster rate than anticipated by GreenHunter Mesquite Lake, in which case the payments received by GreenHunter Mesquite Lake for capacity and energy in accordance with the terms of the power purchase agreement could be insufficient to pay the operating costs attributable to providing such capacity and energy. Reliance on the district as GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s primary revenue source The district, pursuant to its obligations to make payments for the electric power delivered to it by GreenHunter Mesquite Lake under the power purchase agreement, is the primary source of projected revenues for GreenHunter Mesquite Lake. Financial or other changes in the district’s circumstances could adversely impact its ability to make payments. Some possible changes of this nature include any adverse financial results, any changes in reimbursement of production tax credits or industry consolidation or restructuring. In the event the district is unable to honor its obligations to purchase power from GreenHunter Mesquite Lake pursuant to the power purchase agreement, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake would be required to locate purchasers of the power produced at the facility 17 Table of Contents and there can be no assurance that it would have the ability to do so, or that it would be able to do so at favorable prices. Transmission capability limitations The facility will deliver its electric output to the district, at a point of transfer on the facility site. The district will be responsible for transmission of the delivered energy from the point of transfer to its own system. The district has performed studies which demonstrate that there are no constraints on the transmission system which would require curtailment of power production by the facility, but to the extent there are such curtailments, this could adversely affect production and revenues of the facility. Failure by GreenHunter Mesquite Lake to perform its obligations under the power purchase agreement The economic feasibility of the project and the facility depends upon the ability of GreenHunter Mesquite Lake to perform its obligations to deliver electric power to the district under the power purchase agreement and receive payments from the sale of power pursuant thereto. If GreenHunter Mesquite Lake fails to perform its obligations under the power purchase agreement in accordance with its terms, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake would likely be unable to receive such payment and generate revenues. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake may not be able to effectively manage its construction costs GreenHunter Mesquite Lake may suffer from increasing costs in retrofitting and constructing the project. While GreenHunter Mesquite Lake has completed the acquisition of the facility, substantial costs will be incurred in retrofitting and repairing the facility in a manner that will allow commercial operations as contemplated by the project. While GreenHunter Mesquite Lake has secured fixed-price contracts for approximately 50% of the cost of retrofitting and repair of the facility, changes in engineering scope, increases in construction, labor, or capital expenses could impair GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s ability to successfully complete the project. Risks relating to anticipated 1603 Program Grant under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act The project qualifies for the renewable energy production tax credit under the Recovery Act. In lieu of the tax credit, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake expects to apply for a renewable energy tax grant under the Recovery Act. If GreenHunter Mesquite Lake is not successful in obtaining the 1603 Program Grant, or if the amount of such grant is less than anticipated GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Regulatory risks and other matters affecting the electric power industry Changes to the currently favorable regulations and legislation within the renewable energy industry may adversely impact GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s future revenues. The favorable legislative and regulatory climate for the renewable energy industry may not continue. The viability of the facility and the project will be in large part dependent upon the continuation of a favorable legislative and regulatory climate with respect to the continuing operations and the future growth and development of the renewable energy industry. Government regulations, subsidies, incentives and the market design have a favorable impact on the construction of renewable energy facilities. If the current government regulations, subsidy and incentive programs or the design of the market are significantly modified or delayed, the facility or project may be adversely affected, which may have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter Mesquite Lake. During 2008 GreenHunter Mesquite Lake began refurbishing the facility. During the course of its air permit review, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake determined that the existing air permit was not sufficient to support its operations. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake put the project on hold during the fourth quarter of 2008 while it was implementing the re-permitting process. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake obtained the authority to construct (“ATC”) permit necessary for construction in June of 2010 and will convert the ATC permit to an operating permit to operate the facility upon satisfying the emissions compliance tests required. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake expects to amend its ATC permit for the number of start-ups of the facility allowed per year, but the can be no assurance that it will be successful in obtaining such amendment. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake has a permit for the discharge of process wastewater for the facility that remains valid through June 2012. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake expects to modify and renew the existing permit to allow for a discharge of a higher flow rate of process wastewater from the facility, but there can be no assurance that it will be successful in obtaining such modification and renewal. 18 Table of Contents Environmental risks Electric utilities and electric power plants such as the facility and GreenHunter Mesquite Lake are subject to continuing environmental regulation. Federal, state and local standards and procedures which regulate the environmental impact of electric utilities are subject to change. These changes may arise from continuing legislative, regulatory and judicial action regarding such standards and procedures. Consequently, there is no assurance that the facility, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake or the district will remain subject to the regulations currently in effect, will always be in compliance with future regulations or will always be able to obtain all required operating permits. An inability to comply with environmental standards could result in additional capital expenditures to comply, reduced operating levels or the complete shutdown of individual electric generating units not in compliance. There is concern by the public, the scientific community, President Obama’s Administration and Congress regarding environmental damage resulting from the use of fossil fuels. Congressional support for the increased regulation of air, water and soil contaminants is building, and there are a number of pending or recently enacted legislative proposals which may affect the electric utility industry. There has also been an increased level of environmental enforcement by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) and state and local authorities. Increased environmental regulations under the provisions of the federal Clean Air Act have created certain barriers to new facility development and modification of existing facilities. The additional costs, including time, human resources, uncertainty and delay, and the risk of fines and penalties for noncompliance, could affect the rate of return relating to investment in power project development. As such, there may be additional costs for purchased power from affected resources. Moreover, these additional costs may upset existing cost assumptions for utilities. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake cannot predict at this time whether any additional legislation or rules will be enacted which will affect the Project or the operations of the facility, and if such laws or rules are enacted, what the costs to GreenHunter Mesquite Lake might be in the future because of such action. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake believes that it is and will be in material compliance with applicable environmental laws for the facility and the project. However, costs of owning and operating the facility may, in the future, be adversely affected by legislative, regulatory, administrative and enforcement actions involving environmental controls. Seismic risks and earthquake insurance The facility, is located in a seismically active region and subject to seismic events, including, ground shaking, liquefaction and landslides. Located within the County is the Imperial Valley portion of the Salton Trough. The Salton Trough encompasses the Coachella, Imperial and Mexicali valleys and extends north from the Gulf of California. The geologic structure of the Salton Trough is a result of an evolving “rift” in the earth’s crustal plates. Nonmarine and alluvium sediments cover large portions of the area. The most noteworthy of the numerous active faults traversing the Salton Trough is the San Andreas Fault. The other two major northwest-trending fault zones bounding the Salton Trough are the San Jacinto Fault on the northwest and the Elsinore Fault on the southwest. According to the 2007 Uniform California Earthquake Rupture Forecast (“UCERF”), California has a 99.7% chance of having a magnitude 6.7 or larger earthquake during the next 30 years. The UCERF was organized by the Southern California Earthquake Center and was prepared by the 2007 Working Group on California Earthquake Probabilities, a multi-disciplinary collaboration of scientists and engineers. The UCERF indicates that the likelihood of an earthquake of magnitude 7.5 or greater in the next 30 years is 46%. According to the UCERF, such an earthquake is more likely to occur in the southern half of the State (37% chance in 30 years) than in the northern half (15% chance in 30 years). The obligation of GreenHunter Mesquite Lake to provide electric power under the power purchase agreement may be abated in the event of earthquake or other event of force majeure. The construction contracts contain standard force majeure provisions that relieve the parties of their obligations to the extent they are prevented from performing due to an event of force majeure (which could include earthquakes). Under the boiler contract, the guaranteed mechanical completion date can be extended due to force majeure, and the deadline to complete performance testing and to deliver the equipment under the fuel yard contract can also be extended due to force majeure. 19 Table of Contents Damage from an earthquake can range from total destruction of the facility, to destabilization or liquefaction of the soils, to little or no damage at all. The extent of damage and the long-term effects from an earthquake, particularly ongoing earthquake activity, may be difficult to determine immediately. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake has acquired earthquake insurance on the facility during the construction period of the Contract as part of the builder’s risk policy, which insurance is expected to be maintained after construction is completed. The insurance provides coverage for up to $50,000,000 in losses. There can be no assurance that such earthquake insurance will continue to be maintained by GreenHunter Mesquite Lake or that it will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. Other events of force majeure Construction and operation of the facility are also at risk from other events of force majeure, such as damaging storms, winds and floods, fires and explosions, strikes and lockouts, sabotage, terrorist acts, wars, blockages, riots and spills of hazardous substances, among other events. Construction and operations may also be stopped or delayed from non-casualty events such as changes in law, revocation or revision of permits and litigation, among other things. Reliance on supply contracts The ability of GreenHunter Mesquite Lake to produce electricity at the facility will depend, in large part, on the availability and affordability of biomass fuel to operate the facility. While GreenHunter Mesquite Lake has entered into one biofuel supply agreement to acquire 21,500 tons per year of wood fuel, and has received letters of intent for all of the fuel required to operate the facility in Phase I and approximately 86% of the fuel required to operate the facility in Phase II, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake will be required to enter into additional biofuel supply agreements or purchase biomass fuel on the spot market in order to operate the facility at full capacity in either Phase I or Phase II of the project. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake expects to enter into additional biofuel supply agreements and to obtain the remainder of the biomass fuel on the spot market or by contract once operations have begun and suppliers become accustomed to GreenHunter Mesquite Lake as a new purchaser in the market. Any significant disruption of supply arrangements or significant increases in raw material or transportation costs could have a materially adverse effect on GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s operations. Other operating risks Future revenues and expenses of GreenHunter Mesquite Lake will generally be subject to, among other things, general economic conditions, availability of alternatives products, the capabilities of management in managing the project and other conditions which are unpredictable. Competition The abundant competition and rapidly changing technology in the renewable energy industry may impair GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s success. The renewable energy marketplace is highly fragmented, competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and GreenHunter Mesquite Lake may be unable to successfully compete. Evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and rapid product obsolescence also impact the market. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake currently competes in the market for renewable energy products and services and against companies that are better capitalized than GreenHunter Mesquite Lake. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than GreenHunter Mesquite Lake. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies, products or services with features that could render the technologies, products or services of GreenHunter Mesquite Lake obsolete or less marketable. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s success will be dependent upon its ability to develop superior energy products in a cost-effective manner. In addition, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake may be required to continually enhance any products that are developed as well as introduce new products that keep pace with technological change and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of the marketplace. There can be no assurance that GreenHunter Mesquite Lake will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully develop products that will succeed in the marketplace. 20 Table of Contents General economic conditions The United States economy experienced a significant downturn that started in 2008. Although there were some indications in early 2010 that the downturn may be slowing or reversing, it is unclear at this time whether the downturn has ended, if it may return or worsen, or what the speed of any recovery in the economy will be. General economic conditions may also be affected by other events including the prospect of increased hostilities abroad and higher overall energy sources. Certain such events may have other effects, the impact of which are difficult to project. Construction risks GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s plan of finance is dependent upon completion of the project by a specified time and within budget. There are many potential risks that could affect the schedule for and/or the cost of construction of the project, including, among other things, interfaces among multiple contractors; shortages of materials and labor; work stoppages; labor disputes; bad weather; unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems; differing site conditions; unidentified utilities; unidentified hazardous materials; earthquakes, floods and other casualties; changes in law; third-party litigation; difficulty in obtaining permits and approvals from local agencies, utility owners, applicable federal or state agencies; delays and lack of cooperation by federal or state agencies, or other third parties in performance of work necessary for the project; traffic constraints and other constraints affecting construction staging; the need to change the basic configuration of the project or the final design in order to construct the project; changes in project requirements including changes in federal, state and local agency standards as well as changes desired by GreenHunter Mesquite Lake and delays and increased cost in obtaining any property needed for the project. Any of these events, or others, could result in increased cost to GreenHunter Mesquite Lake or delay in completion of the project or failure to complete the project and could materially adversely affect the timely receipt of revenues from the district under the power purchase agreement. Pursuant to the power purchase agreement, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to achieve the commercial operation date on or before September 30, 2011 (currently in negotiations to extend this date), and the district may terminate the power purchase agreement if, among other things, the Facility has not produced and delivered to the district at least 13.0 MW for a continuous 24-hour period in the preceding 18 months. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake previously entered into the three construction contracts with the applicable contractor who will construct the project and will manage and direct any subcontractors of the three construction contracts, the boiler contract, the fuel yard contract and a portion of the general construction contract include a fixed price and generally require completion by a specified deadline, but there can be no assurance that the contracts will be completed on schedule or within GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s budget. Although the construction contracts may give GreenHunter Mesquite Lake the contractual right to direct the contractor or any subcontractors engaged by it to perform work, including acceleration of work efforts to make up for schedule delays, it is not always possible or cost-effective to accelerate construction work to meet the originally scheduled completion deadlines. There is no assurance that the cost of the project will not be substantially higher than GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s estimates or that GreenHunter Mesquite Lake will have sufficient resources to pay for, or to finance, any costs that are significantly higher than those estimated. Delay or unavailability of project funding GreenHunter Mesquite Lake needs to raise financing to cover all of the costs of retrofitting and re-powering the Facility using existing biomass processing technology into a profitable electricity power plant. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds can or will be obtained or that such funds could be obtained at rates that would allow the project to be completed. There also can be no assurance that the amount estimated to be required and available for total project costs will be sufficient to provide for payment of all costs and expenses necessary for the completion of the project. Unavailability of biomass GreenHunter Mesquite Lake believes, based on its research and investigations, that there will be adequate supplies of biomass available at GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s projected costs to meet the biomass fuel requirements throughout the term of the power purchase agreement and produce sufficient revenues. However, it is possible that, in the future, fire, disease or other natural disaster, or increases in transportation expense or competition for renewable energy resources, could result in unavailability of sufficient biomass fuel or in increased costs of obtaining such fuel, which could have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s ability to produce 21 Table of Contents revenues. The inherent volatility in the market price of electricity could impact revenue GreenHunter Mesquite Lake expects that all of the electric power to be generated by the facility will be sold to the district pursuant to the existing power purchase agreement, which is a fixed price contract. However, to the extent that the power purchase agreement is terminated, or if the facility generates additional electric power that is sold to someone other than the district pursuant to the power purchase agreement subject to the restrictions set forth therein, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s potential revenues, income and cash flow are subject to volatility in the market price for electricity to the extent that the facility will deliver electric power that is not subject to a fixed price contract. In such circumstance, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake’s ability to generate revenue has exposure to movements in the market price of electricity, as sales to the power market are likely to be made at prevailing market prices. The market price of electricity is sensitive to cyclical changes in demand and capacity supply, and in the economy, as well as to regulatory trends and developments impacting electricity market rules and pricing, transmission development and investment within the United States and to the power markets in other jurisdictions via interconnects and other external factors outside of its control. Energy from biomass facilities must be taken “as delivered” which necessitates the use of other system resources to keep the demand and supply of electric energy in balance. Accordingly, the potential revenue, income and cash flow may be volatile to the extent GreenHunter Mesquite Lake delivers power other than pursuant to a fixed price contract in the circumstances described above. Other risks relating to the district The electric utility industry in general has been, or in the future may be, affected by a number of other factors which could impact the financial condition and competitiveness of many electric utilities, including the district, and the level of utilization of generating and transmission facilities. In addition to the factors discussed herein, such factors include, among others: • effects of compliance with rapidly changing environmental, safety, licensing, regulatory and legislative requirements; • changes resulting from conservation and demand side management programs on the timing and use of electric energy; • effects on reliability of the power supply with the increased usage of renewables; • changes resulting from a national energy policy; • effects of competition from other electric utilities (including increased competition resulting from mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances of competing electric and natural gas utilities and from competitive transmitting of less expensive electricity from much greater distances over an interconnected system) and new methods of, and new facilities for, producing low-cost electricity; • the repeal of certain federal statutes that would have the effect of increasing the competitiveness of many investor-owned utilities; • increased competition from independent power producers and marketers, brokers and federal power marketing agencies; • “self-generation” or “distributed generation” (such as microturbines and fuel cells) by industrial and commercial customers and others; • issues relating to the ability to issue tax-exempt obligations, including restrictions on the ability to sell to nongovernmental entities electricity from generation projects and transmission line service from transmission projects financed with outstanding tax-exempt obligations; • effects of inflation on the operating and maintenance costs of an electric utility and its facilities; • changes from projected future load requirements; • increases in costs and uncertain availability of capital; • shifts in the availability and relative costs of different fuels (including the cost of natural gas); • sudden and dramatic increases in the price of energy purchased on the open market that may occur in times 22 Table of Contents of high peak demand in an area of the country experiencing such high peak demand, such as has occurred in California; • inadequate risk management procedures and practices with respect to, among other things, the purchase and sale of energy and transmission capacity; • other legislative changes, voter initiatives, referenda and statewide propositions; • effects of changes in the economy, population and demand of customers in the District’s service area; • effects of possible manipulation of the electric markets; and • natural disasters or other physical calamities, including but not limited to, earthquakes Any of these factors (as well as other factors) could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of any given electric utility, including the district, and likely will affect individual utilities in different ways. Interconnection Agreements The Company previously entered into the interconnection agreement with the district, which agreement provides for the interconnection of the net output of the project’s Phase I. In January 2010, GreenHunter Mesquite Lake applied to the district to extend the existing interconnection agreement to provide for the interconnection of the project’s Phase II, and in addition to provide for further solar output to be added subsequent to the completion of Phase II. The district has completed its feasibility study for the requested increase in the project’s output, and has confirmed that there are no load flow or short circuit limitations to the requested interconnection, and has provided an estimate of the cost and schedule of the required facilities that is supported by the project’s schedule and budget. The district has informed GreenHunter Mesquite Lake that it will proceed with confirmation of these findings via an impact study and facility study in accordance with its published tariff before entering into a revised interconnection agreement for the increased output of the project and expects to complete these within the project’s schedule for Phase II. GreenHunter Mesquite Lake plans to authorize the district to proceed with design and construction of the Phase I interconnection facilities upon receipt of funding for the project. Risks Relating to the Wind Energy Industry One of our business segments depends on the availability of wind, which may not meet our expectations if weather patterns vary greatly. A portion of our business is dependent on the availability of the wind resource. The strength and consistency of the wind resource at any of our wind projects will vary. Weather patterns are unpredictable could change or the historical data could prove to be an inaccurate reflection of the strength and consistency of the wind in the future. If there is insufficient wind resource, the assumptions underlying the economic feasibility as to the amount of electricity to be generated by any of our proposed wind projects will not be met and income and cash flows will be adversely impacted. The future evaluation of our wind projects will be based on assumptions about certain conditions that may exist and events that may occur in the future. A number of additional factors may cause the wind resource and energy capture at any of our wind projects to differ, possibly materially, from those initially assumed by management, including: • the limited time period over which the site-specific wind data were collected; • the potential lack of close correlation between site-specific wind data and the longer-term regional wind data; • inaccurate assumptions related to wake losses and wind shear; • the limitations in the accuracy with which anemometers measure wind speed; • the inherent variability of wind speeds; • the lack of independent verification of the turbine power curve provided by the manufacturer; • the potential impact of climatic factors, including icing and soiling of wind turbines; 23 Table of Contents • the potential impact of topographical variations, turbine placement and local conditions, including vegetation; • the power delivery schedule being subject to uncertainty; • the inherent uncertainty associated with the use of models, in particular future-oriented models; and • the potential for electricity losses to occur before delivery. Further, the wind resources may be insufficient for our wholly owned subsidiary, GreenHunter Wind Energy, LLC, to become and remain profitable. Wind is naturally variable. The level of electricity production at any of our wind projects, therefore, will also be variable. If there is insufficient wind resource at a project site due to variability, the assumptions underlying management’s belief as to the amount of electricity to be generated by any of our wind projects will not be met. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the wind resource will be sufficient for GreenHunter Wind Energy to become or remain profitable. The inherent volatility in the market price of electricity could impact our profitability. Our potential revenues, income and cash flow are subject to volatility in the market price for electricity. Our ability to generate revenue has exposure to movements in the market price of electricity, as sales to the power market are likely to be made at prevailing market prices. The market price of electricity is sensitive to cyclical changes in demand and capacity supply, and in the economy, as well as to regulatory trends and developments impacting electricity market rules and pricing, transmission development and investment within the United States and to the power markets in other jurisdictions via interconnects and other external factors outside of our control. Energy from wind generating facilities must be taken “as delivered” which necessitates the use of other system resources to keep the demand and supply of electric energy in balance. Accordingly, the potential revenue, income and cash flow may be volatile and adversely affect our value. Any inability or delay in updating or obtaining required licenses and permits could hinder development and adversely affect profitability. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses and permits to operate our business. GreenHunter may not necessarily hold all of the licenses and permits required in connection with the construction and operation of most of our biodiesel refinery, biomass plants, and wind projects. The failure to obtain all necessary licenses or permits, including renewals or modifications, could result in construction delays of any of our projects or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter. Our inability to enter interconnection agreements would restrict our ability to sell electricity. We may be unable to enter into necessary interconnection agreements. GreenHunter will be required to enter into certain interconnection agreements with electric utilities prior to selling electricity. The failure to enter into such interconnection agreements on terms that are acceptable to us could have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter. The wind energy industry is highly dependent on tax incentives. Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code provides for a production tax credit of 1.5 cents (adjusted annually for inflation) per kilowatt hours of electricity produced by the taxpayer from a qualified facility during the 10-year period beginning on the date it was originally placed in service, and sold to an unrelated person. The production tax credit is reduced under a formula for any year in which the national average price of electricity produced from wind for the immediately succeeding year, or the “reference price,” exceeds 8 cents a kilowatt hour adjusted for inflation and is completely eliminated when the reference price exceeds 11 cents (adjusted for inflation) per kilowatt hour. The reference price for 2009 was 2.1 cents. The production tax credit which was scheduled to expire for qualified facilities placed in service after December 31, 2008, was extended by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-343) to qualified facilities placed in service before January 1, 2010. Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, the placed in service deadline for wind facilities has been extended to December 31, 2012. The elimination or significant reduction in the production tax credit described above could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Ownership of our Securities Our common stock only has been publicly traded since January 2, 2008, and the price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since then and may fluctuate substantially in the future. Our common stock has been publicly traded only since January 2008. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since then. From January 2, 2008, to March 30, 2011, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $0.51 per share to a high of $25.45 per share and the closing trading price on March 29, 2011 was $0.92 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • changing conditions in fuel markets; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of comparable companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • future sales of our stock; • tax and other regulatory developments; • our ability to develop and complete facilities, and to introduce and market the energy created by such facilities to economically viable production volumes in a timely manner; and • other factors discussed in the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this prospectus and in any prospectus supplement. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. If we issue additional shares in the future, it will result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation denies the holders of our common stock the right to subscribe for additional shares of capital stock upon any issuance or increase thereof. As a result, if we choose to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our stockholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata ownership of common stock. The issuance of additional securities will result in a reduction of the book value and market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we issue any such additional shares or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all current stockholders who do not purchase such shares. Further, such issuance may result in a change of control of our company. There is no assurance that further dilution will not occur in the future. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination or acquire assets, which would dilute the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 90,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of March 30, 2011, there were 67,883,536 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance and 9,982,675 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. As of December 31, 2010, the number of shares of our common stock subject to outstanding options, warrants, GreenHunter’s Series A convertible preferred stock and GreenHunter’s Series B convertible preferred stock was 15,280,411. At March 30, 2011, we had no commitments to issue additional shares of common stock and we will, in all likelihood, issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock, preferred stock or convertible securities, or a combination of common stock, preferred stock and convertible securities, to the stockholders of a potential target or in connection with a related simultaneous financing to complete a business combination or asset purchase. The issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock or convertible securities may: 25 Table of Contents • significantly dilute the equity interest of current stockholders in our Company; • subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to holders of our common stock; • cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and possibly result in the resignation or removal of some or all of our present officers and directors; and • adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, our issuance of additional debt securities could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination or asset purchase are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness, even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, or change of control provisions, and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, and others hired to manage the acquired business and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. However, we cannot presently ascertain the future role of our key personnel in the target business. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage in connection with a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating as part of a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources familiarizing them with such requirements. This process could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers’ and directors’ allocation of their time to other business interests could have a negative impact. All of our officers are required to commit their full work hour time to our business affairs, with the exception of Mr. Evans and Mr. Krueger. Due to existing management and board of director positions and other business interests that Mr. Evans maintains with other companies, Mr. Evans cannot commit all of his work hours to GreenHunter. Mr. Krueger is also an officer with another public company. However, subject to Board approval where appropriate, all material corporate, strategic and financial decisions will be reviewed and ultimately decided by Mr. Evans. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate attractive business combinations. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities with business objectives similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation may give others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of 26 Table of Contents certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to successfully complete an acquisition of a target business, our business plan will be thwarted and investors may lose their entire investment. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination, asset purchase or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination or asset purchase. We cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of any specific capital raise prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or asset purchase, we may be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination or asset purchase, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination or asset purchase and seek an alternative target. In addition, if we consummate a business combination or asset purchase, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. In the event we cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or we acquire a business that is unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. As a reporting public company, we are currently subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, such statute also requires an evaluation of any target business acquired by us. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal controls, including an evaluation of any target businesses acquired by a company. In the event the internal controls over financial reporting of a target business cannot satisfy the regulatory requirements relating to internal controls or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, we may not be able to complete a business combination with the target business without substantial cost or significant risks to our company or our management may be unable to certify as to the effectiveness of the internal controls following the completion of a business combination. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources or may prevent a business combination with certain target businesses. If we fail to timely complete our evaluation, if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of the internal controls of our company or the acquired business, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Our outstanding options, warrants and convertible preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We have issued options to purchase 7,076,500 shares of common stock, warrants to purchase 5,443,911 shares of common stock, and preferred stock convertible into 2,760,000 shares of common stock, as of December 31, 2010. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these options and warrants or conversion of the preferred stock could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised or converted, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our options, warrants and preferred stock may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the options, warrants and preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If, and to the extent, these options, warrants and preferred stock are exercised or converted, respectively, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 27 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and thus stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. Although we have paid cash dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock, we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and investment opportunities. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. 