Item 1A Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves many risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this prospectus before making an investment decision. Additional risks related to us and our securities may be included in the applicable prospectus supplement related to an offering and in our other filings with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Associated with our Business We have a limited operating history, and our business may not be as successful as we envision. We are currently in an early stage of our current business plan. We have limited operating history with respect to the construction and operation of biodiesel refineries for our own use. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. Therefore, our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the initial expenses, challenges, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the biodiesel industry in general. Investors should evaluate an investment in our company in light of the problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies attempting to develop markets for new products, services and technologies. Despite best efforts, we may never overcome these obstacles to achieve financial success. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our business plan, as well as our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for necessary financing, the provision of necessary feedstock sources, engineering, procurement and construction services and the sale and distribution of our biodiesel fuel on terms that will be commercially viable for us. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or result in revenue or profit. There is no assurance that we will earn significant revenues or that our investors will not lose their entire investment. We have yet to attain profitable operations and we will need additional financing to fund our activities. We are dependent upon our ability to obtain sufficient financing to continue our development and operational activities. The ability to achieve profitable operations is in direct correlation to our ability to raise sufficient financing. It is important to note that even if the appropriate financing is received, there is no guarantee that we will ever be able to operate profitably or derive any significant revenues from our operation. We will be required to raise additional financing to fully implement our entire business plan. Our lack of diversification beyond the renewable energy industry may increase our risk. We expect our primary source of revenue will come from renewable energy assets that generate cash flow from the sale of biodiesel, methanol, wind and biomass-created energy. Any diminution in the value of our assets or decrease in operating revenues could negatively affect our ability to become profitable. Further, the illiquid nature of the assets we own and intend to purchase could jeopardize our ability to satisfy our working capital needs or impair our ability to meet any debt obligations that may become due. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to effectively manage our acquisition and construction costs. We may suffer from increasing costs in retrofitting current acquisitions. For example, while we have completed the acquisition of a biomass plant located in Mesquite Lake, California, substantial costs will be incurred in retrofitting and repairing this plant in a manner that will allow commercial operations. While we have attempted to project such costs, changes in engineering scope, increases in construction, labor, or capital expenses could impair our ability to successfully achieve our investment objectives. We have significant debt that could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a relatively high amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness of approximately $66 million. Because we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on our debt, that portion of our cash flow is not available for other purposes. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired by our leverage and existing debt covenants. Our indebtedness could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; • force us to sell assets or seek additional capital to service our indebtedness, which we may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • and limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We are dependent upon our key personnel. Our operations and financial success will significantly depend on our managerial personnel. Our managerial personnel have the right to make all decisions with respect to management and operation of our business and affairs. We are dependent on the executive officers and key personnel of GreenHunter and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we lose members of our management team. We have not entered into any employment agreements with any of our management personnel nor have we obtained “key man” life insurance on any of their lives. Further, our officers’ and directors’ allocation of their time to other business interests could have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our business objectives. All of our officers are required to commit their full work hour time to our business affairs, with the exception of Gary C. Evans, our Chief Executive Officer, and David S. Krueger, our Chief Financial Officer, who maintain officer and director positions and relationships with other companies. For a discussion regarding the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the risk factor below regarding conflicts of interest of our officers and directors. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to meet our capital requirements. Future construction and operation of biodiesel refineries, capital expenditures to build and operate our biomass plants and wind projects, hiring qualified management and key employees, complying with licensing, registration and other requirements, maintaining compliance with applicable laws, production and marketing activities, administrative requirements, such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, legal compliance costs and accounting expenses will all require a substantial amount of additional capital and cash flow. We will be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects, tolling arrangements, which may include a profit sharing component, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that we will be successful in locating a suitable financing or strategic business combination transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely, and these are likely to be dilutive to the existing shareholders as we issue additional shares of common stock to investors in future financing transactions and as these financings trigger anti-dilution adjustments in existing equity-linked securities. Also, the terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, and the issuances of incentive awards under employee equity incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets, both generally and specifically in the renewable energy industry, the fact that we are a new enterprise without a proven operating history, the location of our biodiesel refineries in the United States instead of Europe or other regions where biodiesel is more widely accepted, and the price of biodiesel and oil on the commodities market. Furthermore, if petroleum or biodiesel prices on the commodities markets remain depressed, then our revenues will likely decrease and decreased revenues may increase our requirements for capital. Some of the contractual arrangements governing our operations may require us to maintain minimum capital, and we may lose our contract rights if we do not have the required minimum capital. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, are not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. Risks Related to the Renewable Energy Industry We have not currently identified specific future investments or acquisitions within the renewable energy industry and thus cannot evaluate their associated merits or risks. Since we are not limited to any particular target business in the renewable energy industry within which to operate or complete an acquisition or business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of any future business we may operate. We may complete a business combination in the future with a company in any business we choose in the renewable energy industry (e.g., wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and biofuels) or a vertical integration within the fuels distribution business, and we are not limited to any particular type of business. While our recent acquisitions are described in our filings with the SEC, there is minimal current information for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any other target businesses which we may acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination 20 Table of Contents with a financially unstable company, a company with unknown or non-quantifiable risks or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of such entity. Further acquisitions or business combinations with an entity in the renewable energy industry would be characterized by a high level of risk, and we may be adversely affected by currently unascertainable risks of that business. Although our management team will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. The abundant competition and rapidly changing technology in the renewable energy industry may impair our success. The renewable energy marketplace is highly fragmented, competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and we may be unable to successfully compete. Evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and rapid product obsolescence also impact the market. We currently compete in the market for renewable energy products and services and against companies that are better capitalized than us. Our competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Our current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies, products or services with features that could render our technologies, products or services obsolete or less marketable. Our success will be dependent upon our ability to develop superior energy products in a cost effective manner. In addition, we may be required to continually enhance any products that are developed as well as introduce new products that keep pace with technological change and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of the marketplace. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully develop products that will succeed in the marketplace. Changes to the currently favorable regulations and legislation within the renewable energy industry may adversely impact our future revenues. The favorable legislative and regulatory climate for the renewable energy industry may not continue. The viability of our renewable energy projects will be in large part dependent upon the continuation of a favorable legislative and regulatory climate with respect to the continuing operations and the future growth and development of the renewable energy industry. Government regulations, subsidies, incentives and the market design have a favorable impact on the construction of renewable energy facilities. If the current government regulations, subsidy and incentive programs or the design of the market are significantly modified or delayed, our projects may be adversely affected, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Internal Revenue Code currently provides for income tax credits for biodiesel fuels and for electricity produced and sold from qualified biomass and wind energy projects. These credits, which were to expire for biodiesel fuels after December 31, 2008, and for qualified wind energy projects placed in service on or after December 31, 2008, have been extended for one year as part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-343). The credits available for biodiesel fuel and biomass and wind energy are discussed below. The elimination or significant reduction in these tax credits could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The pricing of renewable energy may fluctuate significantly due to the price of oil and gas. The market price of renewable energy fuels is volatile and subject to significant fluctuations, which may cause our profitability to fluctuate significantly. The market price of renewable energy fuels is dependent on many factors, including the price of gasoline, which is in turn dependent on the price of 21 Table of Contents crude oil. Petroleum prices are highly volatile and difficult to forecast due to frequent changes in global politics and the world economy. The distribution of petroleum throughout the world is affected by incidents in unstable political environments, such as Iraq, Iran, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, countries comprising the former U.S.S.R., Venezuela, Nigeria, and other countries and regions. The industrialized world depends critically on oil from these areas, and any disruption or other reduction in oil supply or other types of instability in these regions, such as an escalation of conflicts, can cause significant fluctuations in the prices of oil and gasoline. We cannot predict the future price of oil or gasoline. Unprofitable prices for the sale of renewable energy fuels may result from the significant fluctuations in market prices. In recent years, the price of crude oil, gasoline and renewable energy fuels all reached historically unprecedented high levels, although prices for oil, gasoline and renewable energy fuels declined substantially in 2008. As the prices of gasoline and petroleum materially decline, we believe that the demand for and price of renewable energy fuels may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in the market price of renewable energy fuels will likely cause our profitability to fluctuate significantly. The pricing of renewable energy may fluctuate due to the level of production of renewable energy. We believe that the production of renewable energy fuels is expanding rapidly, especially in the United States. There are a number of new plants under construction and planned for construction. We expect existing renewable energy fuel and biopower plants to expand by increasing production capacity and actual production. Increases in the demand for renewable energy fuels and biopower may not be commensurate with increasing supplies of renewable energy fuels or power. Thus, increased production of renewable energy fuels or power may lead to lower renewable energy fuel prices. The increased production of renewable energy fuels and power could also have other adverse effects. For example, increased renewable energy fuels production could lead to increased supplies of co-products from the production of renewable energy fuels. Those increased supplies could lead to lower prices for those co-products. Also, the increased production of renewable energy fuels could result in increased demand for renewable energy fuel supplies. This could result in higher prices for such supplies and cause higher renewable energy fuels production costs, which would result in lower profits. We cannot predict the future price of renewable energy fuels or biopower. Any material decline in the price of renewable energy fuels or power will adversely affect our sales and profitability. Construction and development delays or cost over-runs may adversely affect our business. Absent a successful business combination, the ability of GreenHunter to generate revenues will depend upon the successful completion of the restoration or development, construction and operations of our existing biodiesel refinery, biomass plants, and wind assets. Such development requires capital equipment being manufactured, shipped to our project sites, installed and tested. In addition, we will be required to build or purchase and install on-site roads, substations, interconnection facilities and other infrastructure. There is a risk that the construction phase may not be completed, that construction may be substantially delayed, or that material cost over-runs may be incurred, which may result in GreenHunter being unable to meet profit expectations. We would be liable for violations of environmental laws related to our ownership or operation of our facilities. Federal, state and local laws impose liability on a landowner for releases or the otherwise improper presence on the premises of hazardous substances. This liability is without regard to fault for, or knowledge of, the presence of such substances. A landowner may be held liable for hazardous materials brought onto the property before it acquired title and for hazardous materials that are not discovered until after it sells the property. Similar liability may occur under applicable state law. In 22 Table of Contents addition, we could face environmental liability for violations on or related to facilities we lease or otherwise use unrelated to ownership. If any hazardous materials are found within the operations of GreenHunter and are in violation of the law at any time, we may be liable for all cleanup costs, fines, penalties and other costs. This potential liability will continue after we sell or cease operations on any subject properties and may apply to hazardous materials present within the properties before we acquired or commence use of them. If significant losses arise from hazardous substance contamination, our financial viability may be substantially and adversely affected. Risks Related to the Biodiesel Industry The biodiesel industry is highly dependent on a mix of legislation and regulation (including tax incentives) and any changes in legislation or regulation could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The competitiveness of the biodiesel industry currently depends to a large extent on tax incentives and renewable fuel standards. We blend our biodiesel in the United States at our facilities in Houston, Texas. We are entitled to credits against the U.S. federal excise taxes imposed on the removal of biodiesel from any refinery or terminal and sales of biodiesel to certain persons. We cannot assure you that the biodiesel fuels credit or any other government incentive programs will be renewed on similar terms, if at all. Any failure to renew such incentive programs at all or on similar terms could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the tax credit and other federal and state programs that benefit biodiesel generally are subject to U.S. and other government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures that might in the future be the subject of challenges. In recent years, the U.S. federal government has sought to stimulate the production and use of biodiesel fuel. The primary incentive is the biodiesel fuels credit, which was enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Public Law No. 108-357) and modified by Energy Tax Incentive Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58) and the Economic Emergency Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law No. 110-343). Under Section 40A of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 40A), the biodiesel fuels credit is equal to the “biodiesel mixture credit” plus the “biodiesel credit.” The biodiesel mixture credit is $0.50 per gallon, or for fuel produced or sold after December 31, 2008, $1.00 per gallon. The biodiesel mixture credit is available for biodiesel (including agri-biodiesel) used by the taxpayer in the production of a qualified biodiesel mixture (a mixture of biodiesel and diesel fuel) which is sold by the taxpayer producing such fuel mixture to any person for use as fuel or is used as a fuel by the taxpayer producing such mixture. The biodiesel credit is U.S. $0.50 per gallon, or for fuel produced or sold after December 31, 2008, $1.00 per gallon. The biodiesel credit is available for biodiesel (including agri-diesel) that is not in a mixture with diesel fuel and that is either used by the taxpayer as fuel in a trade or business or is sold by the taxpayer at retail to a person and placed in the fuel tank of such person’s vehicle. Agri-biodiesel is biodiesel produced from “virgin oils” such as soybean oil or derived from animal fats. Finally, there is an additional U.S. $0.10 per gallon tax credit for small agri-biodiesel producers for up to 15 million gallons of agri-biodiesel produced by small producers. The biodiesel fuels credit is only available for biodiesel that meets both the registration requirements for fuels and fuel additives established by the Environmental Protection Agency under Section 211 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545) and the ASTM D6751 standard. Under the Economic Emergency Stabilization Act of 2008, these tax incentives expired at the end of 2009. On March 10, 2010, the U.S. Senate passed the American Workers, State, and Business Relief Act of 2010 (H.R. 4213) providing, among other provisions, a one year retroactive extension of the biodiesel tax incentive. With passage of H.R. 4213, the U.S. House and U.S. Senate must reconcile the differences between the two versions of the bill approved by the respective chambers. H.R. 4213 as 23 Table of Contents approved by the U.S. House in December, 2009 also provides for a one year retroactive extension of the biodiesel tax incentive. The failure to renew the biodiesel tax credits described above or other programs could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the United States, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law No. 109-58), mandates a minimum amount of renewable fuel (biodiesel, ethanol, and other renewable fuels) to be used by petroleum refiners in the fuel supply market, increasing from 4.0 billion gallons in 2006 to 7.5 billion gallons by 2012. Under the final regulations, adopted pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, U.S. Congress established a renewable fuels standard intended to encourage the use of 12.95 billion gallons of renewable fuels annually in 2010 and 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels annually by 2022. While these renewable fuel standards may stimulate demand for renewable fuels generally, we cannot assure you that there will be specific demand for biodiesel. Any waiver of, or failure to adopt, the renewable fuel standards could adversely impact the demand for biodiesel and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to various regulatory schemes, including environmental regulations, and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. All phases of designing, constructing and operating biodiesel production facilities present environmental risks and hazards. We are subject to environmental regulation implemented or imposed by a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations as well as international conventions. Among other things, environmental legislation provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills and discharges, as well as emissions of various substances produced in association with biodiesel fuel operations. Legislation also requires that facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed in such a way that would satisfy applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines, penalties and liability, as well as potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The discharge of pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties, and may require us to incur costs to remedy such discharge. Failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, require us to forfeit property rights and may affect the value of our assets or our ability to conduct our business. We may also be required to take corrective actions, including, but not limited to, installing additional equipment, which could require us to make substantial capital expenditures. We could also be required to indemnify our directors, officers and employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against them. These could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations, financial condition and business outlook are highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and the availability of supplies. Our financial results are substantially dependent on many different commodity prices, especially prices for feedstock, biodiesel, petroleum diesel and materials used in the construction of our production facilities. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these items, our financial results may fluctuate substantially and we may experience periods of declining prices for our products and increasing costs for our raw materials, which could result in operating losses. Although we may attempt to offset a portion of the effects of fluctuations in prices by entering into forward contracts to supply biodiesel or purchase 24 Table of Contents feedstock or other items or by engaging in transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts, the ability to hedge against certain feedstock price fluctuations is limited, the amount and duration of these hedging and other risk mitigation activities may vary substantially over time and these activities also involve substantial costs and risks and may not be effective to mitigate these fluctuations. We depend on third parties for all of our feedstock supply. If such third parties are not able to complete their feedstock supply services or default on their agreement to provide us with feedstock or procure feedstock for us, we would be materially adversely affected. Irrespective of whether third parties perform under feedstock contractual arrangements with us, we may be forced to buy feedstock at uneconomic rates, or we may not have access to feedstock at all. Additionally, we may have difficulty selling our biodiesel if third parties with whom we contract under our off-taking agreements do not perform. These conditions may cause our operating results to suffer. As feedstocks comprise the primary input in producing biodiesel, changes in the price of feedstocks can significantly affect our business. The price of feedstock is influenced by market demand, weather conditions, animal processing and rendering plant decisions, factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of feedstock is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of feedstock, such as increased demand, adverse weather or crop disease, could increase feedstock prices and potentially harm our business. In addition, we may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing feedstock on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require us to suspend operations until feedstock is available at economical terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The price we pay for feedstock at a facility could increase if an additional multi-feedstock biodiesel production facility is built in the same general vicinity or if alternative uses are found for lower cost feedstocks. Historically, the price of biodiesel has correlated closely to the price of petroleum diesel which is directly correlated to the price of crude oil. The price of petroleum diesel fluctuates substantially and is difficult to forecast due to factors such as political unrest, worldwide economic conditions, supply and demand, seasonal weather conditions, changes in refining capacity, fluctuations in exchange rates and natural disasters. Price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, the return on our investment in biodiesel production facilities and on our general financial condition. Price fluctuations for biodiesel fuel may also impact the investment market, and our ability to raise capital. Although market prices for biodiesel fuel rose to record levels during 2007 and into 2008, the prices of crude oil and biodiesel fuel declined substantially in the second half of 2008. Future decreases in the prices of biodiesel or petroleum diesel fuel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Biodiesel is marketed both as a pure and blended substitute for diesel, and as a result, a decrease in petroleum diesel prices may reduce the price at which we can sell our biodiesel and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cold weather can cause biodiesel, particularly biodiesel produced from animal fats, oils and greases, to gel sooner than petroleum-based diesel, which has resulted in price discounts for biodiesel produced from animal fats, oils and greases. The cloud point for a fuel is the temperature at which the liquid becomes cloudy due to formation of crystals and solidification of saturates. With decreasing temperature, more solids form and the material approaches the pour point, the lowest temperature at which the material will pour. A lower cloud 25 Table of Contents point means the fuel will flow more readily in cold weather. No. 2 diesel and No. 1 diesel are used extensively for automotive transportation. Although the cloud points for these products vary depending on the origin refinery and the time of the year, an indicative range observed for No.2 diesel is —14°C to -23°C. In contrast, the cloud points of soybean-based, yellow grease-based and animal tallow-based pure biodiesel, or B100, are approximately 0°C, 5°C and 10°C, respectively. Testing conducted in 2005 by the Biodiesel Cold Flow Consortium established by the National Biodiesel Board demonstrated that the cloud points of soybean-based, yellow grease-based and animal tallow-based 2% blended biodiesel, or B2, varied only a few degrees from the cloud point of No. 2 diesel. However, there exists a discount in the marketplace for B100 biodiesel with high cloud points. This discount may range from $0.50 to $1.15 per gallon depending on the season, with a lower discount during warmer months and a higher discount in the summer months. In addition to the decline in price differential between biodiesel and petroleum-derived diesel expected during the colder months, it is likely that the discount for biodiesel produced from animal fats, oils and greases will increase during colder weather. This may also require us to use particular feedstocks that customers believe are better suited for their climate, which could require us to purchase more expensive feedstocks and increase our cost of sales. In addition, the testing conducted by the Biodiesel Cold Flow Consortium showed that successful blending of biodiesel with petroleum-based diesel would require the biodiesel to be heated to approximately 10°C above its cloud point. This would necessitate the use of heated facilities in order to produce a blended product, which may increase blending costs and the resulting cost of biodiesel sold to the public. Further, at low temperatures, biodiesel may need to be stored in a heated building or heated storage tanks, which would increase storage costs. Any reduction in the demand for or pricing of, or increased costs of, our biodiesel will reduce our revenue and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. biodiesel industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The production of biodiesel is made significantly more competitive by federal and state tax incentives. The federal excise tax incentive program for biodiesel was originally enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, but expired on December 31, 2009. Since January 1, 2009, this program provides fuel blenders, generally distributors, with a one-cent tax credit for each percentage point of biodiesel blended with petroleum diesel. For example, distributors that blend biodiesel with petroleum diesel into a B20 blend would receive a twenty cent per gallon excise tax credit. These tax credits generally allow for B100 biodiesel to sell at a premium over wholesale petroleum diesel, although the wholesale price paid by a blender to a producer may not reflect the full amount of the tax credit and the amount of the premium, if any, is generally less during colder months. On March 10, 2010, the U.S. Senate passed the American Workers, State, and Business Relief Act of 2010 (H.R. 4213) providing, among other provisions, a one year retroactive extension of the biodiesel tax incentive. With passage of H.R. 4213, the U.S. House and U.S. Senate must reconcile the differences between the two versions of the bill approved by the respective chambers. H.R. 4213 as approved by the U.S. House in December, 2009 also provides for a one year retroactive extension of the biodiesel tax incentive. In addition, approximately thirty-one states provide mandates, programs and other incentives to increase biodiesel production and use, such as mandates for fleet use or for overall use within the state, tax credits, financial grants, tax deductions, financial assistance, tax exemptions and fuel rebate programs. These incentives are meant to lower the cost of biodiesel in comparison to petroleum diesel. The elimination or significant reduction in the federal excise tax incentive program or state incentive programs benefiting biodiesel production may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Competition due to advances in alternative fuels may lessen the demand for biodiesel and negatively impact our profitability. Alternative fuels, gasoline oxygenates, ethanol and biodiesel production methods are continually under development. A number of automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers are developing alternative clean power systems using fuel cells or clean-burning gaseous fuels that, like biodiesel, may address increasing worldwide energy costs, the long-term availability of petroleum reserves and environmental concerns. Additionally, there is significant research and development being undertaken regarding the production of ethanol from cellulosic biomass, the production of methane from anaerobic digestors, and the production of electricity from wind and tidal energy systems, among other potential sources of renewable energy. If these alternative fuels continue to expand and gain broad acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively. This additional competition could reduce the demand for biodiesel, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse public opinions concerning the biodiesel industry in general could harm our business. The biodiesel industry is new, and general public acceptance of biodiesel is uncertain, especially in the United States. Public acceptance of biodiesel as a reliable, high-quality alternative to petroleum diesel may be limited or slower than anticipated due to several factors, including: • public perception of the “food versus fuel” debate; • public perception that biodiesel is produced from waste vegetable oil or other lower-quality feedstocks, thereby resulting in lower quality fuel; • public perception that the use of biodiesel will require excessive engine modifications, or that engines running biodiesel will not reliably start in cold conditions; • actual or perceived problems with biodiesel quality or performance; and • concern that using biodiesel will void engine warranties. Such public perceptions or concerns, whether substantiated or not, may adversely affect the demand for our biodiesel, which in turn could decrease our sales, harm our business and adversely affect our financial condition. We need to negotiate extension of credit terms with our Lender. Due to the current economic conditions related to the biodiesel industry, we cannot make biodiesel at a profit at our Houston refinery. Our ability to repay indebtedness to our Lender is dependent upon us achieving profitable operations at our facility. Until such time as we can achieve and maintain profitable operations at our Houston facility, we need to negotiate terms with our lender allowing us to maintain ownership and operation of the facility. Unless we negotiate mutually agreeable terms with our lender regarding repayment of the credit facility secured by the Houston refinery, our plant is subject to being foreclosed upon by the lender. 27 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Wind Energy Industry One of our business segments depends on the availability of wind, which may not meet our expectations if weather patterns vary greatly. A portion of our business is dependent on the availability of the wind resource. The strength and consistency of the wind resource at any of our wind projects will vary. Weather patterns are unpredictable could change or the historical data could prove to be an inaccurate reflection of the strength and consistency of the wind in the future. If there is insufficient wind resource, the assumptions underlying the economic feasibility as to the amount of electricity to be generated by any of our proposed wind projects will not be met and income and cash flows will be adversely impacted. The future evaluation of our wind projects will be based on assumptions about certain conditions that may exist and events that may occur in the future. A number of additional factors may cause the wind resource and energy capture at any of our wind projects to differ, possibly materially, from those initially assumed by management, including: • the limited time period over which the site-specific wind data were collected; • the potential lack of close correlation between site-specific wind data and the longer-term regional wind data; • inaccurate assumptions related to wake losses and wind shear; • the limitations in the accuracy with which anemometers measure wind speed; • the inherent variability of wind speeds; • the lack of independent verification of the turbine power curve provided by the manufacturer; • the potential impact of climatic factors, including icing and soiling of wind turbines; • the potential impact of topographical variations, turbine placement and local conditions, including vegetation; • the power delivery schedule being subject to uncertainty; • the inherent uncertainty associated with the use of models, in particular future-oriented models; and • the potential for electricity losses to occur before delivery. Further, the wind resources may be insufficient for our wholly owned subsidiary, GreenHunter Wind Energy, LLC, to become and remain profitable. Wind is naturally variable. The level of electricity production at any of our wind projects, therefore, will also be variable. If there is insufficient wind resource at a project site due to variability, the assumptions underlying management’s belief as to the amount of electricity to be generated by any of our wind projects will not be met. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the wind resource will be sufficient for GreenHunter Wind Energy to become or remain profitable. The inherent volatility in the market price of electricity could impact our profitability. Our potential revenues, income and cash flow are subject to volatility in the market price for electricity. Our ability to generate revenue has exposure to movements in the market price of electricity, as sales to the power market are likely to be made at prevailing market prices. The market price of electricity is sensitive to cyclical changes in demand and capacity supply, and in the economy, as well as to regulatory trends and developments impacting electricity market rules and pricing, transmission 28 Table of Contents development and investment within the United States and to the power markets in other jurisdictions via interconnects and other external factors outside of our control. Energy from wind generating facilities must be taken “as delivered” which necessitates the use of other system resources to keep the demand and supply of electric energy in balance. Accordingly, the potential revenue, income and cash flow may be volatile and adversely affect our value. Any inability or delay in updating or obtaining required licenses and permits could hinder development and adversely affect profitability. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses and permits to operate our business. GreenHunter may not necessarily hold all of the licenses and permits required in connection with the construction and operation of most of our biodiesel refinery, biomass plants, and wind projects. The failure to obtain all necessary licenses or permits, including renewals or modifications, could result in construction delays of any of our projects or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter. Our inability to enter interconnection agreements would restrict our ability to sell electricity. We may be unable to enter into necessary interconnection agreements. GreenHunter will be required to enter into certain interconnection agreements with electric utilities prior to selling electricity. The failure to enter into such interconnection agreements on terms that are acceptable to us could have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter. The wind energy industry is highly dependent on tax incentives. Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code provides for a production tax credit of 1.5 cents (adjusted annually for inflation) per kilowatt hours of electricity produced by the taxpayer from a qualified facility during the 10-year period beginning on the date it was originally placed in service, and sold to an unrelated person. The production tax credit is reduced under a formula for any year in which the national average price of electricity produced from wind for the immediately succeeding year, or the “reference price,” exceeds 8 cents a kilowatt hour adjusted for inflation and is completely eliminated when the reference price exceeds 11 cents (adjusted for inflation) per kilowatt hour. The reference price for 2009 was 2.1 cents. The production tax credit which was scheduled to expire for qualified facilities placed in service after December 31, 2008, was extended by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-343) to qualified facilities placed in service before January 1, 2010. Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, the placed in service deadline for wind facilities has been extended to December 31, 2012. The elimination or significant reduction in the production tax credit described above could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Biomass Industry The inherent volatility in the market price of electricity could impact our profitability. Our potential revenues, income and cash flow are subject to volatility in the market price for electricity. Our ability to generate revenue has exposure to movements in the market price of electricity, as sales to the power market are likely to be made at prevailing market prices. The market price of electricity is sensitive to cyclical changes in demand and capacity supply, and in the economy, as well as to regulatory trends and developments impacting electricity market rules and pricing, transmission 29 Table of Contents development and investment within the United States and to the power markets in other jurisdictions via interconnects and other external factors outside of our control. Energy from biomass facilities must be taken “as delivered” which necessitates the use of other system resources to keep the demand and supply of electric energy in balance. Accordingly, the potential revenue, income and cash flow may be volatile and adversely affect our value. Any inability or delay in updating or obtaining required licenses and permits could hinder development and adversely affect profitability. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses and permits to operate our business. GreenHunter may not necessarily hold all of the licenses and permits required in connection with the construction and operation of most of our biodiesel refinery, biomass plants, and wind projects. The failure to obtain all necessary licenses or permits, including renewals or modifications, could result in construction delays of any of our projects or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter. Our inability to enter interconnection agreements would restrict our ability to sell electricity. We may be unable to enter into necessary interconnection agreements. GreenHunter will be required to enter into certain interconnection agreements with electric utilities prior to selling electricity. The failure to enter into such interconnection agreements on terms that are acceptable to us could have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter. The biomass energy industry is highly dependent on tax incentives. Production Tax Credit. Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code generally provides a production tax credit of 1.5 cents (the “credit amount” as adjusted annually for inflation) for electricity produced by a taxpayer from a qualified energy resource at a qualified facility during the 10-year period beginning on the date the facility was originally placed in service (the “credit period” which is adjusted for certain facilities as noted below) and sold by the taxpayer to an unrelated person. A qualified energy resource includes closed-loop biomass and open-loop biomass. The production tax credit is reduced under a formula for any year in which the national average price of electricity from biomass, or the “reference price,” exceeds 8 cents a kilowatt hour adjusted for inflation and is completely eliminated when the reference price exceeds 11 cents (adjusted for inflation) per kilowatt hour. For 2009, the production tax credit is 2.1 cents per kilowatt-hour for closed-loop biomass and 1.1 cents per kilowatt-hour for open-loop biomass. For a facility using open-loop biomass to produce electricity, the term “qualified facility” generally means any facility owned by the taxpayer which in the case of a facility using agricultural livestock waste nutrients is originally placed in service before January 1, 2011 and the nameplate capacity rating is not less than 150 kilowatts and in the case of any other facility is originally placed in service before January 1, 2011. It also includes a new unit placed in service after October 3, 2008, in connection with such facility but only to the extent of the increased amount of electricity produced at the facility by such unit. The credit period for a facility for open-loop biomass is shortened from a 10-year period to a 5-year period for any facility placed in service before August 8, 2005, and for facilities other than using agricultural livestock waste placed in service before October 22, 2004, is a 5-year period beginning on January 1, 2005. Also, the credit amount for electricity produced from a facility for open-loop biomass is reduced by one-half. 30 Table of Contents For a facility using closed-loop biomass to produce electricity, the term “qualified facility” generally means any facility owned by the taxpayer which is originally placed in service after 1992 and before January 1, 2011 or owned by the taxpayer which before January 1, 2011 is originally placed in service and modified to use closed-loop biomass to co-fire with coal, with other biomass, or with both but only if certain modifications are approved under the Biomass Power for Rural Development Programs or is part of a pilot project of the Commodity Credit Corporation. (The amount of production tax credit attributable to a qualified facility under the immediately preceding sentence is further adjusted based on the ratio of the thermal content of the closed-loop biomass used in the facility to the thermal content of all fuels used in such facility.) It also includes a new unit placed in service after October 3, 2008, in connection with such facility but only to the extent of the increased amount of electricity produced at the facility by such unit. With respect to either a closed-loop biomass facility or open-loop biomass facility, if the owner of such facility is not the producer of the electricity, the person eligible for the credit is the lessee or operator of such facility. The production tax credit for qualified resources was scheduled to expire for qualified facilities placed in service after December 31, 2008. However, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-343) extended the production tax credit generally to biomass facilities placed in service before January 1, 2011. Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, the placed in service deadline for wind facilities has been extended to December 31, 2013. The elimination or significant reduction in the production tax credit described above could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Bonus Depreciation. Finally, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 provides that an additional first year depreciation of 50% of the adjusted tax basis is available for cellulosic biomass plant property. Cellulosic biomass means any liquid fuel which is produced from any lignocellulosic or hemicellulosic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis. Cellulosic biomass plant property means property of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation which is used in the U.S. solely to produce cellulosic biomass, the original use of which commences with the taxpayer and which is placed in service after October 3, 2008, in taxable years ending after that date but before January 1, 2013, and which is acquired by the taxpayer by purchase. No Assurance of Continued Tax Incentives. The biomass industry is highly dependent on tax incentives. The credit for producing fuels from nonconventional sources has already expired, and there is no assurance that other tax incentives will be renewed or otherwise continued on favorable terms. Risks Relating to the Ownership of our Securities Our common stock only has been publicly traded since January 2, 2008, and the price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since then and may fluctuate substantially in the future. Our common stock has been publicly traded only since January 2008. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since then. From January 2, 2008, to March 30, 2010, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $0.91 per share to a high of $25.45 per share and the closing trading price on March 26, 2010 was $1.34 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • changing conditions in fuel markets; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of comparable companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; 31 Table of Contents • future sales of our stock; • tax and other regulatory developments; • our ability to develop and complete facilities, and to introduce and market the energy created by such facilities to economically viable production volumes in a timely manner; and • other factors discussed in the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this prospectus and in any prospectus supplement. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. If we issue additional shares in the future, it will result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation denies the holders of our common stock the right to subscribe for additional shares of capital stock upon any issuance or increase thereof. As a result, if we choose to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our stockholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata ownership of common stock. The issuance of additional securities will result in a reduction of the book value and market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we issue any such additional shares or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all current stockholders who do not purchase such shares. Further, such issuance may result in a change of control of our company. There is no assurance that further dilution will not occur in the future. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination or acquire assets, which would dilute the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 90,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of March 30, 2010, there were 67,883,536 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance and 9,976,825 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. As of December 31, 2009, the number of shares of our common stock subject to outstanding options, warrants, GreenHunter’s Series A convertible preferred stock and GreenHunter’s Series B convertible preferred stock was 16,958,448. At March 30, 2010, we had no commitments to issue additional shares of common stock and we will, in all likelihood, issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock, preferred stock or convertible securities, or a combination of common stock, preferred stock and convertible securities, to the stockholders of a potential target or in connection with a related simultaneous financing to complete a business combination or asset purchase. The issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock or convertible securities may: • significantly dilute the equity interest of current stockholders in our Company; • subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to holders of our common stock; • cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and possibly result in the resignation or removal of some or all of our present officers and directors; and • adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, our issuance of additional debt securities could result in: 32 Table of Contents • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination or asset purchase are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness, even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, or change of control provisions, and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, and others hired to manage the acquired business and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. However, we cannot presently ascertain the future role of our key personnel in the target business. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage in connection with a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating as part of a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources familiarizing them with such requirements. This process could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers’ and directors’ allocation of their time to other business interests could have a negative impact. All of our officers are required to commit their full work hour time to our business affairs, with the exception of Mr. Evans and Mr. Krueger. Due to existing management and board of director positions and other business interests that Mr. Evans maintains with other companies, Mr. Evans cannot commit all of his work hours to GreenHunter. Mr. Krueger is also an officer with another public company. However, subject to Board approval where appropriate, all material corporate, strategic and financial decisions will be reviewed and ultimately decided by Mr. Evans. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate attractive business combinations. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities with business objectives similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation may give others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to successfully complete an acquisition of a target business, our business plan will be thwarted and investors may lose their entire investment. 33 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination, asset purchase or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination or asset purchase. We cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of any specific capital raise prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or asset purchase, we may be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination or asset purchase, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination or asset purchase and seek an alternative target. In addition, if we consummate a business combination or asset purchase, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. We are subject to credit market risk. Distress in the credit and financial markets has reduced liquidity and credit availability. The Company has a credit facility consisting of a fully utilized $33.5 million term loan facility and a $10 million working capital facility with WestLB, which the bank may, in its sole discretion, increase up to an aggregate of $150 million (including the $43.5 million commitment). As of March 30, 2010, approximately $38 million was outstanding under this credit facility, and the Company had no borrowing availability. The lender has agreed to waive any events of default under the credit facility until April 30, 2010. Credit market risk could negatively impact WestLB’s ability and willingness to fund the commitment amount of the credit facility and to increase the credit facility up to $150.0 million or any lesser increased amount. Credit market risk could also negatively impact the Company’s suppliers being able to make deliveries in accordance with their commitments. In the event we cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or we acquire a business that is unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. As a reporting public company, we are currently subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and will need to have an audit of our management’s assessment of internal control beginning in fiscal year 2010. In addition, such statute also requires an evaluation of any target business acquired by us. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal controls, including an evaluation of any target businesses acquired by a company. In the event the internal controls over financial reporting of a target business cannot satisfy the regulatory requirements relating to internal controls or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, we may not be able to complete a business combination with the target business without substantial cost or significant risks to our company or our management may be unable to certify as to the effectiveness of the internal controls and our auditor may be unable to publicly attest to this certification following the completion of a business combination. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of internal controls over financial reporting and our independent auditors’ attestation of that assessment may require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources or may prevent a business combination with certain target businesses. If we fail to timely complete our evaluation, if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of the internal controls of our company or the acquired business or if our auditors cannot attest to management’s certification, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. 34 Table of Contents Our outstanding options, warrants and convertible preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We have issued options to purchase 7,989,500 shares of common stock, warrants to purchase 6,208,948 shares of common stock, and preferred stock convertible into 2,760,000 shares of common stock, as of December 31, 2009. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these options and warrants or conversion of the preferred stock could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised or converted, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our options, warrants and preferred stock may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the options, warrants and preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If, and to the extent, these options, warrants and preferred stock are exercised or converted, respectively, you may experience dilution to your holdings. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and thus stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. Although we have paid cash dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock, we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and investment opportunities. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. 