Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves many risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this prospectus and in the documents incorporated by reference herein before making an investment decision. In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The risks and uncertainties described in this prospectus and the documents incorporated by reference herein are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently believe are not material may also adversely affect our business. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in this prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference herein actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way. Risks Related to Our Business We have continued to experience losses from our ongoing operations and we have doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are dependent upon our ability to obtain sufficient financing to continue our development and operational activities. The ability to achieve profitable operations is in direct correlation to our ability to raise sufficient financing. It is important to note that even if the appropriate financing is received, there is no guarantee that we will ever be able to operate profitably or derive any significant revenues from our operations. We will be required to raise additional financing to fully implement our entire business plan. Our financial position has been adversely affected by our lack of working capital and the overall deterioration across all capital markets, particularly those for renewable energy companies. We have continued to experience losses from our ongoing operations and have doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. On November 18, 2011, we received notice from the Exchange Staff of the NYSE Amex LLC indicating that we are 8 Table of Contents below one of the Exchange’s continued listing requirements of the NYSE Amex LLC’s Company Guide due to our sustaining losses which are so substantial in relation to our overall operations or our existing financial resources, or our financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable, in the opinion of the Exchange, that we will be able to continue operation and /or meet our obligations as they become due as set forth in Section 1003 (a)(iv) of the Company Guide. Should we be unable to meet the continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted and it would become very difficult to trade our shares based on a lack of liquidity. In addition, a delisting of our common stock would make it difficult for us to list the shares of our Series C Preferred Stock on the NYSE Amex, thus limiting your ability to trade such shares. We have a limited operating history, and our business may not be as successful as we envision. We are in an early stage of our current business plan. We have a limited operating history with respect to the construction and operation of water management facilities for “unconventional” oil and gas exploration and production activities. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. Therefore, our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the initial expenses, challenges, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the water management industry in general. Investors should evaluate an investment in our company in light of the problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies attempting to develop markets for new products, services and technologies. Despite our best efforts, we may never overcome these obstacles to achieve financial success. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our new business strategy, as well as our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for necessary financing for the construction of facilities related to our water management operations. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or result in revenue or profit. There is no assurance that we will earn significant revenues or that our investors will not lose their entire investment. We have significant debt that could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a relatively high amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had total indebtedness of approximately $8.5 million. We also were unable to satisfy our interest obligations on our outstanding 9% Series B Senior Secured Redeemable Debentures during the period from March 2011 through December 2011. Because we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on our debt, that portion of our cash flow is not available for other purposes. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired by our leverage and existing debt covenants. Our indebtedness could result in the following: • Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • Require us to dedicated a portion of our cash flow from operations to payment on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; • Force us to sell assets or seek additional capital to service our indebtedness, which we may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • Place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • Limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We are dependent upon our key personnel. Our operations and financial success will significantly depend on our managerial personnel. Our managerial personnel have the right to make all decisions with respect to management and operation of our business and affairs. We are dependent on our executive officers and key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we lose members of our management team. We have not entered into any employment agreements with any of our management personnel nor have we obtained “key man” life insurance on any of their lives. Further, our officers’ and directors’ allocation of their time to other business 9 Table of Contents interests could have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our business objectives. All of our officers are required to commit their full work hour time to our business affairs, with the exception of Gary C. Evans, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and David S. Krueger, our Chief Financial Officer, who maintain officer and/or director positions and relationships with other companies. We may not be able to meet our capital requirements. Capital expenditures to build and operate our water management facilities, hiring qualified management and key employees, complying with licensing, registration and other requirements, maintaining compliance with applicable laws, production and marketing activities, administrative requirements, such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, legal compliance costs and accounting expenses will all require a substantial amount of additional capital and cash flow. Our subsidiary, GreenHunter Water, has identified water hauling capacity as a constrained resource in our target areas of operations and we are actively pursuing contracts for this service as part of our Total Water Management Solutions portfolio offering. Our ability to generate revenues in this market is dependent our ability to source capital for expansion, hire and train operating personnel and maintain our fleet of equipment so it is available when needed. We will be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects, which may include a profit sharing component, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that we will be successful in locating a suitable financing or strategic business combination transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely, and these are likely to be dilutive to the existing stockholders as we issue additional shares of common stock to investors in future financing transactions and as these financings trigger anti-dilution adjustments in existing equity-linked securities. Also, the terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets, both generally and specifically in the renewable energy and water management industry, and the fact that we are a new enterprise without a proven operating history. Some of the contractual arrangements governing our operations may require us to maintain minimum capital, and we may lose our contract rights if we do not have the required minimum capital. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from any future operations, are not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. Risks Related to Our Water Management Business We are subject to United States federal, state and local regulations regarding issues of health, safety, transportation, and protection of natural resources and the environment. Under these regulations, we may become liable for penalties, damages or costs of remediation. Any changes in laws and government regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing are expected to result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions for oil and gas explorers and producers. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Sponsors of two companion bills, which are currently pending in the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works Committee have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, this legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens for oil and natural gas operators. Several states are also considering implementing, or in some instances, have implemented, new regulations pertaining to hydraulic fracturing, including the disclosure of chemicals used in 10 Table of Contents connection therewith. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process would make it more difficult and more expensive to complete new wells in the unconventional shale resource formations and increase costs of compliance and doing business for oil and natural gas operators. As a result of such increased costs, or results of operations could be negatively affected. Our water management operations are subject to other United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety, waste management, and transportation and disposal of produced-water and other materials. For example, our water management business segment is expected to include disposal into injection wells that could pose some risks of environmental liability, including leakage from the wells to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Liability under these laws and regulations could result in cancellation of well operations, fines and penalties, expenditures for remediation, and liability for property damage and personal injuries. Sanctions for noncompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations also may include assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, revocation of permits and issuance of corrective action orders. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, and, to a lesser extent, orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict and/or joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. Demand for our water management services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. A substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for our water management services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on the industry’s view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. The prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and may be affected by a variety of factors, including the following: • Demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions; • The ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels for oil; • Oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries; • The level of excess production capacity; • Political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unres; • The level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; • The cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • Technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • Weather conditions. The oil and gas industry historically has experienced periodic downturns. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for our water management services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our water management activities and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves using water, sand, and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. The federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the Underground Injection Control provisions of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to exclude hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection” and associated permitting requirements under certain circumstances. However, the repeal of this exclusion has been advocated by certain advocacy organizations and others in the public. Legislation to amend the SDWA to repeal this exemption and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, were proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Similar legislation could be introduced in the current session of Congress or at the state level. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways, with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, having commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, the results of which are anticipated to be available by late 2012. In 2010, a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives undertook investigations into hydraulic fracturing practices, including requesting information from various field services companies. The U.S. Department of the Interior has announced that it will consider regulations relating to the use of hydraulic fracturing techniques on public lands and disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents. In addition, some states and localities have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations or ordinances that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, or that would impose higher taxes, fees or royalties on natural gas production. Moreover, public debate over hydraulic fracturing and shale gas production has been increasing and has resulted in delays of well permits in some areas. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, incurred by our customers or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations or ordinances regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells and an associated decrease in demand for our water management activities, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We currently do not have the necessary technology for the treatment of water used in the hydraulic fracturing process and will need to acquire or license such technology prior to expanding our operations into this area. Although we have begun to enter into agreements relating to water management activities for use in the oil and gas industry, we currently do not have the necessary technology for the treatment of water used in the hydraulic fracturing process. We will need to acquire or license such technology prior to entering into this segment of our contemplated future operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or license such technology at all or on favorable to terms to us. The failure to obtain such technology could have a material adverse effect on us and could restrict our ability to successfully enter into the water treatment business. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, droughts, climate change, and other adverse natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Our ability to provide water management operations is subject to the availability of water, which is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including extended droughts and temperature extremes, which are quite common, but difficult to predict and may be influenced by global climate change. This risk is particularly true with respect to regions where oil and gas operations are significant. In extreme cases, entire operations may be unable to continue without substantial water reserves. These factors can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Salt water injection wells may potentially create earthquakes. In December 2011, the state of Ohio shut down a disposal site because it was determined that the disposal facility was completed into a previously unknown fault line and may have been a contributing factor in creating low energy earthquakes. We are not currently insured for earthquake coverage in Ohio, but we are evaluating options for business interruption insurance that may provide coverage for a disposal well being shut-in by a geological event. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Biomass Facility We have been unable to obtain additional financings for the completion of the construction and retrofitting of the biomass facility and there is a substantial risk that it may not become operational on schedule. We have been unable to obtain the additional financing to fund additional capital expenditures for the completion of the construction and retrofitting the biomass facility during 2011. Without additional financing we will be unable to complete the biomass facility on time which could impact our ability to collect revenues from the sale of electricity pursuant to a power purchase agreement. Pursuant to the current power purchase agreement, we were required to use commercially reasonable efforts to achieve the commercial operation date on or before September 30, 2011. The power purchase agreement provides that the district may terminate the power purchase agreement if, among other things, the biomass facility has not produced and delivered to the district at least 13.0 MW for a continuous 24-hour period in the preceding 18 months. In addition, the Company currently has a valid interconnection agreement providing for the transmission of the electricity from the biomass facility to the district. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds can or will be obtained or that such funds could be obtained at rates that would allow the project to be completed. There also can be no assurance that the amount estimated to be required and available for total project costs will be sufficient to provide for payment of all costs and expenses necessary for the completion of the project. The failure to obtain additional financing to complete the project on terms that are acceptable to us could have a material adverse effect on us. Our inability to enter interconnection agreements would restrict our ability to sell electricity. We may be unable to enter into necessary interconnection agreements. We will be required to enter into certain interconnection agreements with electric utilities prior to selling electricity. The failure to enter into such interconnection agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to effectively manage our construction costs at the biomass facility. We may suffer from increasing costs in retrofitting the biomass facility. While we have completed the acquisition of the biomass facility, substantial costs will be incurred in retrofitting and repairing the biomass facility in a manner that will allow commercial operations. While we have secured fixed-price contracts for approximately 50% of the cost of retrofitting and repair of the biomass facility, changes in engineering scope, increases in construction, labor, or capital expenses could impair our ability to successfully complete the project. We may not be able to obtain the 1603 Program Grant under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Retrofitting the biomass facility qualifies for the renewable energy production tax credit under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. In lieu of the tax credit, we expect to apply for a renewable energy tax grant under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. If we are not successful in obtaining the 1603 Program Grant, or if the amount of such grant is less than anticipated our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We are subject to regulations and other legislation that affects the electric power industry. Changes to the currently favorable regulations and legislation within the renewable energy industry may adversely impact our future revenues. The favorable legislative and regulatory climate for the renewable energy industry may not continue. The viability of the biomass facility and the project will be in large part dependent upon the continuation of a favorable legislative and regulatory climate with respect to the continuing operations and the future growth and development of the renewable energy industry. Government regulations, subsidies, incentives and the market design have a favorable impact on the construction of renewable energy facilities. If the current government regulations, subsidy and incentive programs or the design of the market are significantly modified or delayed, the biomass facility or project may be adversely affected, which may have a material adverse effect on us. 13 Table of Contents Environmental laws related to our ownership or operation of our biomass facility subject us to potential liability that we may be unaware. Federal, state and local laws impose liability on a landowner for releases or the otherwise improper presence on the premises of hazardous substances. This liability is without regard to fault for, or knowledge of, the presence of such substances. A landowner may be held liable for hazardous materials brought onto the property before it acquired title and for hazardous materials that are not discovered until after it sells the property. Similar liability may occur under applicable state law. In addition, we could face environmental liability for violations on or related to ownership of the biomass facility. If any hazardous materials are found within our operations and are in violation of the law at any time, we may be liable for all cleanup costs, fines, penalties and other costs. This potential liability will continue after we sell or cease operations on any subject properties and may apply to hazardous materials present within the properties before we acquired or commence use of them. If significant losses arise from hazardous substance contamination, our financial viability may be substantially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks related to other environmental laws, rules, and regulations. Electric utilities and electric power plants such as the biomass facility are subject to continuing environmental regulation. Federal, state and local standards and procedures which regulate the environmental impact of electric utilities are subject to change. These changes may arise from continuing legislative, regulatory and judicial action regarding such standards and procedures. Consequently, there is no assurance that the biomass facility or the district will remain subject to the regulations currently in effect, will always be in compliance with future regulations, or will always be able to obtain all required operating permits. An inability to comply with environmental standards could result in additional capital expenditures to comply, reduced operating levels or the complete shutdown of individual electric generating units not in compliance. There is concern by the public, the scientific community, President Obama’s administration and Congress regarding environmental damage resulting from the use of fossil fuels. Certain political groups and members of Congress support the increased regulation of air, water and soil contaminants, and there are a number of pending or recently enacted legislative proposals which may affect the electric utility industry. There has also been an increased level of environmental enforcement by the EPA and state and local authorities. Increased environmental regulations under the provisions of the federal Clean Air Act have created certain barriers to new facility development and modification of existing facilities. The additional costs, including time, human resources, uncertainty and delay, and the risk of fines and penalties for noncompliance, could affect the rate of return relating to investment in power project development. As such, there may be additional costs for purchased power from affected resources. Moreover, these additional costs may upset our existing cost assumptions for utilities, and thus negatively affect our results of operations from our biomass facility. We cannot predict at this time whether any additional legislation or rules will be enacted which will affect the project or the operations of the biomass facility, and if such laws or rules are enacted, what the costs to us might be in the future because of such action. However, costs of owning and operating the biomass facility may, in the future, be adversely affected by legislative, regulatory, administrative and enforcement actions involving environmental controls. We are subject to risks from seismic activity and our insurance may be inadequate to cover losses resulting from such activity. The biomass facility is located in a seismically active region and is subject to seismic events, including, ground shaking, liquefaction and landslides. According to the 2007 Uniform California Earthquake Rupture Forecast, California has a 99.7% chance of having a magnitude 6.7 or larger earthquake during the next 30 years. Our obligation to provide electric power under the power purchase agreement may be abated in the event of earthquake or other event of force majeure. The construction contracts contain standard force majeure provisions that relieve the parties of their obligations to the extent they are prevented from performing due to an event of force majeure (which could include earthquakes). Under the contract we have for the installation of the biomass facility’s boiler, the guaranteed mechanical completion date can be extended due to force majeure, and the deadline to complete performance testing and to deliver the equipment under the fuel yard contract can also be extended due to force majeure. Damage from an earthquake can range from total destruction of the biomass facility, to destabilization or liquefaction of the soils, to little or no damage at all. The extent of damage and the long-term effects from an earthquake, particularly ongoing earthquake activity, may be difficult to determine immediately. Such effects may negatively affect our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We have acquired earthquake insurance on the biomass facility during the construction period as part of the builder’s risk policy, which insurance is expected to be maintained after construction is completed. The insurance provides coverage for up to $50,000,000 in losses. There can be no assurance that such earthquake insurance will continue to be maintained by us or that it will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. Potential electric power limitations may impact our biomass facility. The biomass facility will deliver its electric output to the district, at a point of transfer on the biomass facility site. The district will be responsible for transmission of the delivered energy from the point of transfer to its own system. The district has performed studies which demonstrate that there are no constraints on the transmission system which would require curtailment of power production by the biomass facility, but to the extent there are such curtailments, this could adversely affect production and revenues of the biomass facility. We depend on a relatively small number of suppliers for the biofuel to operate our biomass facility. Our ability to produce electricity at the biomass facility will depend, in large part, on the availability and affordability of biomass fuel to operate the biomass facility. We expect to enter into additional biofuel supply agreements and to obtain the remainder of the biomass fuel on the spot market or by contract once operations have begun and suppliers become accustomed to us as a new purchaser in the market. Any significant disruption of supply arrangements or significant increases in raw material or transportation costs could have a materially adverse effect on our operations. Risks Relating to the Ownership of our Securities Our common stock only has been publicly traded since January 2, 2008, and the price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since then and may fluctuate substantially in the future. Our common stock has been publicly traded only since January 2008. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since then. From January 2, 2008, to March 30, 2012, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $0.51 per share to a high of $25.45 per share and the closing trading price on March 29, 2012 was $2.30 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • changing conditions in fuel markets; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of comparable companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • future sales of our stock; • tax and other regulatory developments; • our ability to develop and complete facilities, and to introduce and market the energy created by such facilities to economically viable production volumes in a timely manner; and • other factors discussed in the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this document. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. If we issue additional shares in the future, it will result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation denies the holders of our common stock the right to subscribe for additional shares of capital stock upon any issuance or increase thereof. As a result, if we choose to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our stockholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata ownership of common stock. The issuance of additional securities will result in a reduction of the book value and market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we issue any such additional shares or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares, such issuance will cause a reduction in the 15 Table of Contents proportionate ownership and voting power of all current stockholders who do not purchase such shares. Further, such issuance may result in a change of control of our company. There is no assurance that further dilution will not occur in the future. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination or acquire assets, which would dilute the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 90,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2011, there were 63,808,026 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance and 9,984,220 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. As of December 31, 2011, the number of shares of our common stock subject to outstanding options, warrants, GreenHunter’s Series A convertible preferred stock and GreenHunter’s Series B convertible preferred stock was 15,258,041. As of March 30, 2012, we had commitments to issue 556,877 additional shares of common stock and we will, in all likelihood, issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock, preferred stock or convertible securities, or a combination of common stock, preferred stock and convertible securities, to the stockholders of a potential target or in connection with a related simultaneous financing to complete a business combination or asset purchase. The issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock or convertible securities may: • significantly dilute the equity interest of current stockholders in our Company; • subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to holders of our common stock; • cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and possibly result in the resignation or removal of some or all of our present officers and directors; and • adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, our issuance of additional debt securities could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination or asset purchase are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness, even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, or change of control provisions, and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, and others hired to manage the acquired business and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. However, we cannot presently ascertain the future role of our key personnel in the target business. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage in connection with a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating as part of a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources familiarizing them with such requirements. This process could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers’ and directors’ allocation of their time to other business interests could have a negative impact. All of our officers are required to commit their full work hour time to our business affairs, with the exception of Mr. Evans and Mr. Krueger. Due to existing management and board of director positions and other business interests that Mr. Evans maintains with other companies, Mr. Evans cannot commit all of his work hours to GreenHunter. Mr. Krueger is also an officer with another public company. However, subject to Board approval where appropriate, all material corporate, strategic and financial decisions will be reviewed and ultimately decided by Mr. Evans. 16 Table of Contents Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate attractive business combinations. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities with business objectives similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation may give others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to successfully complete an acquisition of a target business, our business plan will be thwarted and investors may lose their entire investment. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination, asset purchase or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination or asset purchase. We cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of any specific capital raise prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or asset purchase, we may be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination or asset purchase, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination or asset purchase and seek an alternative target. In addition, if we consummate a business combination or asset purchase, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. In the event we cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or we acquire a business that is unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. As a reporting public company, we are currently subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, such statute also requires an evaluation of any target business acquired by us. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal controls, including an evaluation of any target businesses acquired by a company. In the event the internal controls over financial reporting of a target business cannot satisfy the regulatory requirements relating to internal controls or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, we may not be able to complete a business combination with the target business without substantial cost or significant risks to our company or our management may be unable to certify as to the effectiveness of the internal controls following the completion of a business combination. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources or may prevent a business combination with certain target businesses. If we fail to timely complete our evaluation, if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of the internal controls of our company or the acquired business, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Our outstanding options, warrants and convertible preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We have issued options to purchase 8,826,500 shares of common stock, warrants to purchase 3,549,047 shares of common stock, and preferred stock convertible into 2,893,744 shares of common stock, as of December 31, 2011. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these options and warrants or conversion of the preferred stock could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised or converted, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce 17 Table of Contents the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our options, warrants and preferred stock may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of a sale, of the shares underlying the options, warrants and preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If, and to the extent, these options, warrants and preferred stock are exercised or converted, respectively, you may experience dilution to your holdings. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover. In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place that will inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and certain other agreements contain certain provisions that may discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include, but are not limited to, the following: • Staggered terms of service for our board of directors; • The authorization of the board of directors to issue shares of undesignated preferred stock in one or more series without the specific approval of stockholders; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; • the fact that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by our Chairman, President , upon the request of a majority of our board of directors, or by the President or Secretary at the request in writing of the holders of not less than 30% of all the shares issued, outstanding and entitled to vote. All of these provisions could impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and thus stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. Although we have paid cash dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock, we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and investment opportunities. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. 