ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe are material to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Business Our Las Vegas Property is likely to be liquidated for the benefit of the Las Vegas Subsidiary’s creditors. Our Las Vegas Subsidiary is in default under the mortgage loan secured by the Las Vegas Property. The Company believes that the Las Vegas Property will be liquidated, either through a trustee’s sale in accordance with the procedures under Nevada law or through a bankruptcy filing pursuant to either the New Lock Up Agreement or the Old Lock Up Agreement. As a result, the Company believes it is highly unlikely that the Company will receive any benefit from either a trustee’s sale or a bankruptcy filing pursuant to the New Lock Up Agreement or the Old Lock Up Agreement. The description of the Old Lock Up Agreement, the New Lock Up Agreement, and the Standstill Agreement (pursuant to which the Old Lock Up Agreement was held in abeyance while the parties pursued the New Lock Up Agreement) is set forth in the applicable sections of Item 1., The Company’s Current Business and its Financial Distress. If the Company is to continue, then a new or different business will need to be developed and there is no assurance that such a business could or would be possible or that the Company could obtain the necessary financing to allow implementation of such business. 20 The Company has no current cash flow and cash on hand is insufficient to fund our short-term liquidity needs. The Company has no current cash flow and cash on hand is not sufficient to fund our short-term liquidity needs, including the payment of executive salaries of approximately $1.2 million during 2010. Even if we are able to raise additional financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to us or disadvantageous to our existing stockholders. Even if we are able to raise additional cash or obtain financing through the public or private sale of debt and/or equity securities, funding from joint-venture or strategic partners, debt financing or short-term loans, the terms of such transactions may be unduly expensive or burdensome to us or disadvantageous to our existing stockholders. For example, we may be forced to sell or issue our securities at significant discounts to market, or pursuant to onerous terms and conditions, including the issuance of preferred stock with disadvantageous dividend, voting or veto, board membership, conversion, redemption or liquidation provisions; the issuance of convertible debt with disadvantageous interest rates and conversion features; the issuance of warrants with cashless exercise features; the issuance of securities with anti-dilution provisions; the issuance of high-yield securities and bank debt with restrictive covenants and security packages; and the grant of registration rights with significant penalties for the failure to quickly register. If we are able to raise debt financing, we may be required to secure the financing with all of our future business assets, which could be sold or retained by the creditor should we default in our payment obligations. Our independent registered public accounting firm has rendered a report expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report dated April 12, 2010 in connection with the audit of the consolidated financial statements of FX Real Estate and Entertainment Inc. as of and for the period ending December 31, 2009 that includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern due to our need to secure additional capital in order to pay our obligations as they become due. If we are not able to obtain additional debt and/or equity financing, we may not be able to continue as a going concern and you could lose all of the value of our common stock. The concentration of ownership of our capital stock with our affiliates will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Robert F.X. Sillerman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Paul C. Kanavos, our President, beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 44.8% of our outstanding common stock, and our executive officers and directors together beneficially own approximately 47.7% of our outstanding common stock. Our executive officers and directors therefore have the ability to influence our management and affairs and the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, approval of any equity-based employee compensation plan and any stock splits or any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result of this concentrated control, unaffiliated stockholders of our company have a limited ability to meaningfully influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our unaffiliated stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the value and/or liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with Flag Luxury Properties and its affiliates, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. There are conflicts of interest in our current and ongoing relationship with Flag Luxury Properties and its affiliates. These conflicts include: • Certain of our employees, including Mr. Kanavos, our President, are permitted to devote a portion of their time to providing services for or on behalf of Flag Luxury Properties. • Flag Luxury Properties holds a $15 million priority preferred distribution right in FX Luxury Realty which entitles it to receive an aggregate amount of $15 million (together with an accrued priority return of $0.9 million as of December 31, 2009) prior to any distributions of cash by FX Luxury Realty from the proceeds of certain predefined capital transactions. Until the preferred distribution is paid in full, we are required to use the proceeds of certain predefined capital transactions to pay the amount then owed to Flag Luxury Properties. Because of the leverage that Flag Luxury Properties has in negotiating with us, these agreements may not be as beneficial to our stockholders as they would be if they were negotiated at arms’ length and we cannot guarantee that future arrangements with Flag Luxury Properties will be negotiated at arms’ length. For additional information concerning these agreements, please see generally the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 21 We have potential business conflicts with certain of our executive officers because of their relationships with CKX and/or Flag Luxury Properties and their ability to pursue business activities for themselves and others that may compete with our business activities. Potential business conflicts exist between us and certain of our executive officers, including Messrs. Sillerman and Kanavos, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • Mr. Sillerman’s cross-ownership and dual management responsibilities relating to CKX, Flag Luxury Properties and us; • Mr. Kanavos’ cross-ownership and dual management responsibilities relating to Flag Luxury Properties and us; • Employment agreements with certain of our executive officers specifically provide that a certain percentage of their business activities may be devoted to Flag Luxury Properties or CKX; and • Messrs. Sillerman and Kanavos will be entitled to receive their pro rata participation, based on their ownership in Flag Luxury Properties, of the $15 million priority distribution of cash from the proceeds of certain predefined capital transactions when received by Flag Luxury Properties. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with these executive officers. Even if we do so, however, because of their ownership interest in us, these executive officers will have leverage with negotiations over their performance that may result in a resolution of such conflicts that may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with another third party. We have entered into a number of related party transactions with CKX and Flag Luxury Properties and their affiliates on terms that some stockholders may consider not to be in their best interests. We were a party to a shared services agreement with CKX until June 23, 2009, pursuant to which employees for each company, including management level employees, provide services for the other company. In addition, certain of our employees, including Mr. Kanavos, our President, and Mitchell J. Nelson, our General Counsel, are permitted to devote a portion of their time providing services for or on behalf of Flag Luxury Properties. CKX, as a company subject to the rules of The NASDAQ Global Market, is subject to certain rules regarding “affiliated” transactions, including the requirement that all affiliated transactions be approved by a majority of the independent members of the board of directors. Based on Mr. Sillerman’s ownership interests in Flag Luxury Properties, the June 2007 transactions between CKX, Flag Luxury Properties and our company were deemed “affiliated” and therefore subject to the procedural requirements related to such transactions. Because we were a private company at the time we entered into these transactions, and Flag Luxury Properties remains a private company, and not subject to affiliated and related party transaction restrictions, neither Flag Luxury Properties nor our company was represented by a special committee or any independent financial advisor in the negotiation and review of the transactions with CKX. As such, the fairness of the transactions between CKX, Flag Luxury Properties and FX Luxury Realty, from the point of view of Flag Luxury Properties and our company, was determined by management of Flag Luxury Properties, including Messrs. Sillerman and Kanavos, each of whom has numerous conflicting interests relating to their cross-ownership and managerial roles in the various entities. Based on these conflicting interests, some stockholders may not consider these transactions to have been in the best interest of our stockholders. We may lose the services of our key personnel, including certain senior executives, if we are not able to satisfy our payment obligations under their agreements. Our performance is dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers with whom we have employment agreements. Due to our current financial situation, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to continue to make required payments under the executive employment agreements, which amounts total $1.2 million for 2010. A failure to make a payment under an executive employment agreement when due could result in a Termination without Cause under such agreement, which could lead to the departure of the executive in question as well as the acceleration of the obligation to make significant additional payments to the executive in question. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect our business. Such payments have not been made since October 1, 2009. 22 We continue to need to enhance our internal controls and financial reporting systems to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to assess and attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The loss of certain key accounting and finance personnel and termination of the Shared Services Agreement with CKX, coupled with our limited financial and human resources has materially affected our internal controls over financial reporting, including internal controls over accounting for stock based compensation, accounting for long-lived assets and the financial statement close process. Due to the impact of these events on our internal controls over financial reporting in these areas, significant adjustments were necessary to present the financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company currently does not have, nor does it expect to have in the future, the capacity to devise and implement a plan to remediate these material weaknesses. As of December 31, 2009, the Company was unable to remediate these material weaknesses because of its limited financial and human resources. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Substantial amounts of our common stock and other equity securities could be sold in the near future, which could depress our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. All of the outstanding shares of common stock belonging to officers, directors and other affiliates are currently “restricted securities” under the Securities Act. Approximately 55 million shares of these restricted securities are eligible for sale in the public market at prescribed times pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or otherwise. Sales of a significant number of these shares of common stock in the public market or the appearance of such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock and could negatively impact our ability to sell equity in the market to fund our business plans. In addition, we expect that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional common stock and other equity securities as part of our efforts to raise capital to fund our development plans. The issuance of these securities could negatively effect the value of our stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of dividends may have a negative effect on our stock price. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our credit facilities prohibit, and the terms of any future debt agreements we may enter into are likely to prohibit or restrict, the payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Our issuance of additional shares of our preferred stock, common stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, would dilute proportionate ownership and voting rights. Our issuance of shares of preferred stock, common stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, could negatively impact the value of a stockholder’s shares of common stock as the result of preferential voting rights or veto powers, dividend rights, disproportionate rights to appoint directors to our board, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions granted to preferred stockholders, including the grant of rights that could discourage or prevent the distribution of dividends to stockholders, or prevent the sale of our assets or a potential takeover of our company that might otherwise result in stockholders receiving a distribution or a premium over the market price for their common stock. We are entitled, under our certificate of incorporation to issue up to 300 million common and 75 million “blank check” preferred shares. After taking into consideration our outstanding common and preferred shares as of April 9, 2010, we will be entitled to issue up to 234,596,219 additional common shares and 74,998,850 preferred shares. Our board may generally issue those common and preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, without further approval by our stockholders based upon such factors as our board of directors may deem relevant at that time. Any preferred shares we may issue shall have such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as may be designated from time-to-time by our board, including preferential dividend rights, voting rights, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions. We cannot give you any assurance that we will not issue additional common or preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, under circumstances we may deem appropriate at the time. 23 Certain provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, subject to the right of the stockholders to elect a successor at the next annual or special meeting of stockholders, which limits the ability of stockholders to fill vacancies on our board of directors. • Our stockholders may not call a special meeting of stockholders, which would limit their ability to call a meeting for the purpose of, among other things, voting on acquisition proposals. • Our by-laws may be amended by our board of directors without stockholder approval, provided that stockholders may repeal or amend any such amended by-law at a special or annual meeting of stockholders. • Our by-laws also provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at an annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders may not be taken by written action in lieu of a meeting. • Our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which could limit the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates. • Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. • Our board of directors may authorize and issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire our company. As a Delaware corporation, by an express provision in our certificate of incorporation, we have elected to “opt out” of the restrictions under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 