ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks as well as the other risks highlighted elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements We may not be able to raise additional capital. Moreover, additional financing may have an adverse effect on the value of the equity instruments held by our stockholders. We may choose to raise additional funds in connection with any potential acquisition of patent portfolios or other intellectual property assets or operating businesses. In addition, we may also need additional funds to respond to business opportunities and challenges, including our ongoing operating expenses, protection of our assets, development of new lines of business and enhancement of our operating infrastructure. While we may need to seek additional funding, we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of our financings may be dilutive to, or otherwise adversely affect, holders of our common stock. We may also seek additional funds through arrangements with collaborators or other third parties. We may not be able to negotiate arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our business plans. Any such financing that we undertake will likely be dilutive to our current stockholders. Global economic conditions may cause counterparties to our negotiations to delay entering into licensing agreements, product purchase agreements or other business arrangements, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business plan depends significantly on worldwide economic conditions, and the United States and world economies have recently experienced fluctuating economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values. This response could have a material negative effect on the willingness of parties to enter into revenue generating agreements in a timely manner. Entering into such agreements is critical to our business plan, and our failure to do so could cause material harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. The indebtedness created by the sale of the Notes and any future indebtedness we incur exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred an aggregate principal amount of $12,500,000 of senior secured indebtedness represented by the Notes in May 2015, of which $1,749,000 remains outstanding as of March 10, 2016. Our indebtedness and the covenants associated with our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our existing indebtedness, the Notes or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of the Notes and such other indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the Notes and such other indebtedness and could cause defaults under the Notes and such other indebtedness. Any default under the Notes or such other indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Business Operations We commenced legal proceedings against security, content distribution and telecommunications companies. We expect such proceedings to be time-consuming, which may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. To license or otherwise monetize the patent assets that we own, we commenced legal proceedings against a number of large, multi-national companies, pursuant to which we allege that such companies infringe one or more of our patents. There is a risk that we may be unable to achieve the results we desire from such litigation, which may harm our business. In addition, the defendants in these litigations have substantially more resources than we do, which could make our litigation efforts more difficult. We anticipate that legal proceedings may continue for several years. While we have endeavored, where possible, to engage counsel on a full or partial contingency basis, proceedings may commence that fall outside of our contingency arrangements with counsel and may require significant expenditures for legal fees and other expenses. Disputes regarding the assertion of patents and other intellectual property rights are highly complex and technical. Once initiated, we may be forced to litigate against other parties in addition to the originally named defendants. Our adversaries may allege defenses and/or file counterclaims for, among other things, revocation of our patents or file collateral litigations or initiate investigations in the United States, Europe, India, and China or elsewhere in an effort to avoid or limit liability and damages for patent infringement. If such actions are successful, they may preclude our ability to derive licensing revenue from the patents currently being asserted. 12 We have commenced licensing discussions with security, content distribution and telecommunications companies and we expect that these discussions may be time consuming and may either, absent any litigation we initiate, fail to lead to a license, or may result in litigations commenced by the potential licensee. To license or otherwise monetize the patent assets that we own, we have attempted to commence licensing discussions with a number of large, multi-national companies, during the course of which we allege that such companies infringe one or more of our patents. The future viability of our licensing program is highly dependent on the outcome of these discussions, and there is a risk that we may be unable to achieve the results we desire from such negotiations and be forced either to accept minimal royalties or commence litigations against the alleged infringer. In addition, the recipients of our licensing overtures have substantially more resources than we do, which could make our licensing efforts more difficult. Furthermore, due to changes in the approach to patent laws around the world it has become much easier for potential licensees to commence legal actions to revoke or otherwise nullify our patents in lieu of engaging in bona fide licensing discussions. There is a real risk that any potential licensee we approach would rather commence legal action to revoke our patents than engage in any licensing discussions whatsoever. Should we determine the need to commence legal proceedings against a potential licensee, we anticipate facing the risks noted in the risk factor immediately preceding this one. There is a risk that a court will find our patents invalid, not infringed or unenforceable and/or that the USPTO or other relevant patent offices in various countries will either invalidate the patents or materially narrow the scope of their claims during the course of a reexamination, opposition or other such proceeding. In addition, even with a positive trial court verdict, the patents may be invalidated, found not infringed or rendered unenforceable on appeal. This risk may occur either presently or from time to time in connection with future litigations we may bring. If this were to occur, it would have a materially adverse effect on the viability of our company and our operations. Patent litigation is inherently risky and the outcome is uncertain. Some of the parties that we believe infringe on our patents are large and well-financed companies with substantially greater resources than ours. We believe that these parties would devote a substantial amount of resources in an attempt to avoid or limit a finding that they are liable for infringing on our patents or, in the event liability is found, to avoid or limit the amount of associated damages. In addition, there is a risk that these parties may file reexaminations or other proceedings with the USPTO or other government agencies in the United States or abroad in an attempt to invalidate, narrow the scope or render unenforceable the patents we own. In addition, as part of our ongoing legal proceedings, the validity and/or enforceability of our patents-in-suit is often challenged in a court or an administrative proceeding. Various adjudicatory bodies have previously found our patents invalid in China, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United States, and invalidity actions remain pending in China, Germany, the Netherlands, and before the European Patent Office. We may not be able to successfully monetize the patents we acquired from Nokia, nor any of the other patent acquisitions, thus we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully monetize the patent portfolio that we acquired from Nokia, nor any other patent acquisitions. The patents we acquired from Nokia could fail to produce anticipated benefits, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. Failure to successfully monetize these patent assets may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of a patent portfolio is subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to the following: • There is a significant time lag between acquiring a patent portfolio and recognizing revenue from those patent assets, if at all. During that time lag, material costs are likely to be incurred that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. • The integration of a patent portfolio is a time consuming and expensive process that may disrupt our operations. If our integration efforts are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from such acquisition. Therefore, there is no assurance that we will be able to monetize an acquired patent portfolio and recoup our investment. New legislation, regulations or court rulings related to enforcing patents could harm our business and operating results. Intellectual property is the subject of intense scrutiny by the courts, legislatures and executive branches of governments around the world. Various patent offices, governments or intergovernmental bodies (like the European Commission) may implement new legislation, regulations or rulings that impact the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders and such changes could negatively affect our business model. For example, limitations on the ability to bring patent enforcement claims, limitations on potential liability for patent infringement, lower evidentiary standards for invalidating patents, increases in the cost to resolve patent disputes and other similar developments could negatively affect our ability to assert our patent or other intellectual property rights. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become enacted as laws. Compliance with any new or existing laws or regulations could be difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. That said, to date, we do not believe that any existing or proposed statutory or regulatory change has materially affected our business. Further, the leadership changes in the European Commission (“EC”), the body - which among other functions – administers European Union (“EU”) competition or anti-trust law, make it challenging to predict whether and how the EC will shift its focus from its prior stances regarding the enforcement of intellectual property rights and the relationship between such rights and European competition law. Moreover, in August of 2015 the European Court of Justice (the “ECJ”), the highest court in the EU in matters of European law, issued its opinion and judgment in Huawei Technologies v. Co. Ltd. V. ZTE Corp., ZTE Deutschland GmbH, ECLI:EU:C:2015:477. The ECJ opinion provided a number of guidelines regarding the enforcement of standard-essential patents (“SEPs”) which, while informative, still leave a number of details in the implementation of those guidelines open to interpretation by the national courts and the EC. While we believe that our historical and current activities fall squarely within the ECJ’s guidelines, given the newness of the decision and the lack of interpretive case law, it is challenging to predict whether the EC or relevant national courts will agree. Additionally, the political and legal climate in China appears to be causing significant challenges for foreign companies that attempt to enforce their intellectual property rights against Chinese business whether such rights are enforced in China or elsewhere in the world. At this time, it is unclear what if any impact this change in climate will have on our business. 13 We may seek to internally develop new inventions and intellectual property, which would take time and would be costly. Moreover, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for such inventions would lead to the loss of our investments in such activities. Members of our management team have experience as inventors. As such, part of our business may include the internal development of new inventions or intellectual property that we will seek to monetize. However, this aspect of our business would likely require significant capital and would take time to achieve. Such activities could also distract our management team from its present business initiatives, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. There is also the risk that our initiatives in this regard would not yield any viable new inventions or technology, which would lead to a loss of our investments in time and resources in such activities. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any future applications, or that any of our patents, once issued, will provide us with adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged, declared invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope. In addition, since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we will be the first to make our additional new inventions or to file patent applications covering those inventions. It is also possible that others may have obtained or may obtain issued patents that could prevent us from commercializing our products or require us to obtain licenses requiring the payment of significant fees or royalties in order to enable us to conduct our business. As to those patents that we may license or otherwise monetize, our rights will depend on maintaining our obligations to the licensor under the applicable license agreement, and we may be unable to do so. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for our inventions would lead to the loss of our investments in such activities, which would have a material and adverse effect on our company. Moreover, patent application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from our internally generated patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. Our confidential information may be disclosed by other parties. We routinely enter into non-disclosure agreements with other parties, including but not limited to vendors, law firms, parties with whom we are engaged in negotiations, and employees. However, there exists a risk that those other parties will not honor their contractual obligations to not disclose our confidential information. This may include parties who breach such obligations in the context of confidential settlement offers and/or negotiations. In addition, there exists a risk that, upon such breach and subsequent dissemination of our confidential information, third parties and potential licensees may seek to use such confidential information to their advantage and/or to our disadvantage including in legal proceedings in which we are involved. Our ability to act against such third parties may be limited, as we may not be in privity of contract with such third parties. The expected benefits of the acquisition of IDG may not be realized. The success of the acquisition of IDG will depend, in large part, on our ability to grow the IDG businesses and maximize operating results. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in difficulty or delays in fulfilling product orders, difficulty in engaging and/or retaining customers, declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, or other operational difficulties. Any of these difficulties could adversely impact our business performance and operating results. 14 In addition, there is no assurance that our efforts in managing growth will succeed, as growth is subject to factors that we do not control. These factors may include such things as the reactions of third parties with whom we enter into contracts and do business, unanticipated liabilities, the loss of key employees or customers and the reactions of investors and analysts. The mobile computing industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and the success of Group Mobile depends upon the frequent enhancement of existing products and services and timely introduction of new products and services that meet our customers’ needs. Customer requirements for mobile computing products and services are rapidly evolving and technological changes in our industry occur rapidly. To keep up with new customer requirements and distinguish us from our competitors in the business of reselling rugged devices, we must frequently introduce new products and services and enhancements of existing products and services. Enhancing existing products and services and developing new products and services is a complex and uncertain process. Furthermore, we may not be able to launch new or improved products or services before our competition launches comparable products or services. Any of these factors could cause our business or results or operations to suffer. If we successfully commercially launch a product, and our product does not achieve widespread market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. Achieving acceptance of a wire-free recharging system as a preferred method to recharge low-power fixed and mobile electronic devices will be crucial to our continued success. Consumers and commercial customers will not begin to use or increase the use of our product unless they agree that the convenience of our solution would be worth the additional expense of purchasing our system. We have no history of marketing any product and we and our commercialization partners may fail to generate significant interest in the initial commercial products or any other product we or our partners may develop. These and other factors, including the following factors, may affect the rate and level of the market acceptance: • our products price relative to other products or competing methods of recharging; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • the support and rate of acceptance of our technology and solutions with our joint development partners; • perception by users, both individual and enterprise users, of our system’s convenience, safety and efficiency; • press and blog coverage, social media coverage, and other publicity and public relations; and • regulatory developments related to marketing our products or their inclusion in others’ products. If we are unable to achieve or maintain market acceptance, our business would be significantly harmed. The consumer electronics and mobile computing industries are subject to intense competition and rapid technological change, which may result in products or new solutions that are superior to our technology under development or other future products we may bring to market from time to time. If we are unable to anticipate or keep pace with changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer. 15 The consumer electronics and mobile computing industries in general and the power, recharging and alternative recharging segments of that industry in particular are subject to intense and increasing competition and rapidly evolving technologies. Because our products are expected to have long development cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. To compete successfully, we will need to demonstrate the advantages of our products and technologies over well-established alternative solutions, products and technologies, as well as newer methods of power delivery and convince consumers and enterprises of the advantages of our products and technologies. Group Mobile depends on a small number of OEMs to supply the products and services that it sells and the loss of, or a material change in, a business relationship with a major OEM supplier, could adversely affect our operations, cash flow, and financial position. Group Mobile’s future success is highly dependent on its relationships with a small number of OEM suppliers. Group Mobile’s primary suppliers include Synnex Corporation, Ingram Micro Inc., Xplore Technologies Corporation and Flextronics International Ltd., which combined represent approximately 80% of Group Mobile’s inventory purchases. OEM supplier agreements typically are short-term and may be terminated without cause upon short notice. The loss or deterioration of our relationship with any of our major OEM suppliers, the authorization by OEM suppliers of additional distributors, the sale of products by OEM suppliers directly to our reseller and retail customers and end-users, or our failure to establish relationships with new OEM suppliers or to expand the distribution and supply chain services that we provide OEM suppliers could adversely affect our operations, cash flows, and financial position. In addition, OEM suppliers may face liquidity or solvency issues that in turn could negatively affect our operations, cash flows, and financial position. We could become subject to product liability claims, product recalls, and warranty claims that could be expensive, divert management’s attention and harm our business. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the marketing and sale of products used by consumers. We may be held liable if our technology under development now or in the future causes injury or death or is found otherwise unsuitable during usage. Our technology under development incorporates sophisticated components and computer software. Complex software can contain errors, particularly when first introduced. In addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after installation. In addition, if a product we designed is defective, whether due to design or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons, we or our strategic partners may be required to notify regulatory authorities and/or to recall the product. A required notification to a regulatory authority or recall could result in an investigation by regulatory authorities of our products, which could in turn result in required recalls, restrictions on the sale of the products or other penalties. The adverse publicity resulting from any of these actions could adversely affect the perception of our customers and potential customers. These investigations or recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity, could result in our incurring substantial costs, loss of revenue and damaging our reputation, each of which would harm our business. We intend to pursue licensing of our wire-free charging technology as a primary means of commercialization but we may not be able to secure advantageous license agreements. We are pursuing the licensing of our wire-free technology as a primary means of commercialization. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve partnerships and reach licensing arrangements. Furthermore, the timing and volume of revenue earned from license agreements will be outside of our control. 16 Risks Related to our Capital Stock Technology and intellectual property company stock prices are especially volatile, and this volatility may depress the price of our common stock. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies have been highly volatile. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, the following: • developments or disputes concerning our patents; • announcements of developments in our patent enforcement actions; • additions to or departures of our key personnel; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, capital commitments, new technologies, or patents; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions. The market prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile and are likely to remain highly volatile in the future. The stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. Furthermore, we believe that fluctuations in our stock price can also be impacted by court rulings and/or other developments in our patent licensing and enforcement actions and stock price may reflect certain future growth and profitability expectations. If we fail to meet these expectations then our stock price may significantly decline which could have an adverse impact on investor confidence. Future sales of our shares of common stock by our stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is otherwise performing well. As of March 10, 2016, we have 14,956,026 shares of common stock issued and outstanding (after giving effect to the Reverse Stock Split), excluding shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants, options or restricted stock units. As shares saleable under Rule 144 are sold or as restrictions on resale lapse, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. This decline in our stock price could occur even if our business is otherwise performing well. 17 The exercise of a substantial number of warrants or options by our security holders may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Should our warrants outstanding as of March 10, 2016 be exercised, there would be an additional 1,006,679 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market (after giving effect to the Reverse Stock Split). The incentive equity instruments currently outstanding to purchase 816,484 shares of our common stock (after giving effect to the Reverse Stock Split) granted to our management, employees, directors and consultants are subject to acceleration of vesting of 75% and 100% (according to the agreement signed with each grantee) upon a subsequent change of control. Such securities, if exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Therefore, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities and/or on our ability to obtain future financing. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock, and you may not receive funds without selling your common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, nor do we expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any additional future earnings to finance our operations and growth and, therefore, we have no plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock at this time. Any future determination to pay cash dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent on our earnings, financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, any contractual restrictions, and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, our investors may have to sell some or all of their common stock in order to generate cash from your investment. You may not receive a gain on your investment when you sell our common stock and may lose the entire amount of your investment. 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 