Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences, including those described below. You should refer to our discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements on page 3. 41 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Merger With People's United Failure to Complete the Merger Could Negatively Impact the Stock Prices and Future Business and Financial Results of Danvers. If the merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including the following: •we may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay People's United a termination fee of $19,725,000 under the merger agreement; •we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; •under the merger agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of its business prior to completing the merger which may adversely affect its ability to execute certain of its business strategies; and •matters relating to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as independent company, as the case may be. In addition, if the merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our customers and employees. We also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or to enforcement proceedings commenced against People's United or Danvers to perform their respective obligations under the merger agreement. If the merger is not completed, we cannot assure you that the risks described above will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock price. The Merger Agreement May Be Terminated in Accordance With Its Terms and the Merger May Not Be Completed. The merger agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the merger. Those conditions include: adoption of the merger agreement by our stockholders, regulatory approvals, absence of orders prohibiting the completion of the merger, effectiveness of the registration statement of which this proxy statement/prospectus is a part, the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties by both parties and the performance by both parties of their covenants and agreements, and the receipt by both parties of legal opinions from their respective tax counsels. In addition, we may choose to terminate the merger agreement if the average closing price of People's United common stock during the five trading day period ending on the trading day immediately preceding the date of receipt of all required regulatory approvals is less than $11.33 and People's United common stock underperforms a specified peer-group index by more than 20%. Any such termination would be subject to the right of People's United to increase the amount of People's United common stock to be provided to our stockholders pursuant to the formula prescribed in the merger agreement. Lawsuits Challenging the Merger Have Been Filed Against Danvers, the Danvers Board of Directors and People's United, and an Adverse Judgment in Such Lawsuits or Any Future Similar Lawsuits May Prevent the Merger from Becoming Effective or from Becoming Effective Within the Expected Timeframe. Danvers, the Danvers board of directors and People's United are named as defendants in three purported class action lawsuits, two in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware and one in the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, challenging the proposed merger and seeking, among other things, to enjoin the defendants from completing the merger on the agreed-upon terms and rescission of the merger to the extent it has been completed. 42 Table of Contents One of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no order, injunction or decree or other order (whether temporary or permanent) that prohibits the completion of the merger be in effect. If any plaintiff were successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the Danvers or People's United defendants from completing the merger on the agreed upon terms, then such injunction may prevent the merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe. The Merger Agreement Limits Our Ability to Pursue Alternatives to the Merger. The merger agreement contains provisions that make it more difficult for us to sell our business to a party other than People's United. These provisions include a general prohibition on our solicitation of any acquisition proposal or offer for a competing transaction, the requirement that we pay a termination fee of $19,725,000 if the merger agreement is terminated in specified circumstances and the requirement that we submit the adoption of the merger agreement to a vote of our stockholders even if our board of directors changes its recommendation in favor of the approval of the merger agreement in a manner adverse to People's United. These provisions might discourage a third party that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Danvers from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if that party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share value than the current proposed merger consideration. Furthermore, a potential competing acquiror may propose to pay a lower per share price to our stockholders than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of our obligation, in connection with termination of the merger agreement under certain circumstances, to pay People's United a $19,725,000 termination fee. Our Directors and Executive Officers Have Financial Interests in the Merger That May Be Different From, or in Addition to, the Interests of Our Stockholders. In considering the information contained in this proxy statement/prospectus, you should be aware that our executive officers and directors have financial interests in the merger that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our stockholders generally. These interests include the vesting in full of outstanding our equity compensation awards and rights to continued indemnification and insurance coverage by People's United after the merger for acts or omissions occurring before the merger. Danvers Stockholders Will Have a Reduced Ownership and Voting Interest After the Merger and Will Exercise Less Influence Over Management of the Combined Organization. Our stockholders currently have the right to vote in the election of the Board of Directors and on other matters affecting us. Upon the completion of the merger, each Danvers stockholder that receives shares of People's United common stock will become a stockholder of People's United with a percentage ownership of the combined organization that is much smaller than the stockholder's percentage ownership of Danvers. Because of this, Danvers' stockholders will have significantly less influence on the management and policies of People's United than they now have on the management and policies of Danvers. The Shares of People's United Common Stock to be Received by Danvers Stockholders as a Result of the Merger Will Have Different Rights from Shares of Our Common Stock. Following completion of the merger, our stockholders will no longer be stockholders of Danvers. Our stockholders who receive shares of People's United in the merger will instead be stockholders of People's United. There will be important differences between your current rights as a Danvers stockholder and the rights to which you will be entitled as a People's United stockholder. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our Commercial Real Estate and C&I Loans May Expose Us to Increased Credit Risks, and These Risks Will Increase if We Succeed in Increasing These Types of Loans. Commercial real estate and C&I loans represent a significant portion of our loan portfolio. Our goal is to increase the level of our C&I, and on a more selective basis our permanent commercial real estate, segments as a proportion of our portfolio over the next several years. In general, commercial real estate loans and C&I loans generate higher returns, but also pose greater credit risks, than owner occupied residential mortgage loans. As our various commercial loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. The repayment of commercial real estate loans depends on the business and financial condition of borrowers, and a number of our borrowers have more than one commercial real estate loan outstanding with us. Further, these loans are concentrated primarily in Eastern Massachusetts. Economic events and changes in government regulations, which we and our borrowers cannot control or reliably predict, could have an adverse impact on the cash flows generated by properties securing our commercial real estate loans and on the values of the properties securing those loans. We make both secured and, to a much lesser extent, unsecured C&I loans. Repayment of both secured and unsecured C&I loans depends substantially on the borrowers' underlying business, financial condition and cash flows. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers' businesses. Secured C&I loans are generally collateralized by equipment, leases, inventory, accounts receivable and other fixed assets. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Our Focus on Construction Lending Could Expose Us to Risks Not Associated With Other Types of Lending. We originate construction loans for one- to four-family homes, residential condominiums, commercial, multi-family and other non-residential purposes. Construction and land development loans carry higher levels of risk compared to other types of lending, predicated on whether the project can be completed on-time and on-budget and, for non-owner occupied projects, whether our customer can find tenants at rents that will service the debt or buyers that will pay the appraised value for the completed project. Construction loans are typically based upon estimates of costs to complete the project and an appraised value associated with the completed project. Cost estimates and completed appraised values are subject to changes in the market, and these values may change between the time a loan is approved and the project is completed. Delays or cost overruns in completing a project may arise from labor problems, material shortages and other unpredicted contingencies. If actual construction costs exceed budget, our borrowers may have to put more capital into their projects, or we may have to increase the loan amount to ensure the project is completed, potentially resulting in a higher loan-to-value ratio than anticipated. Where a non-owner occupied project is not pre-leased, changes in the market could result in a slow lease-up period or rents below the levels anticipated. For residential land development or construction loans for residential properties that have not been pre-sold, a general slowdown in home buying could result in slow sales and reduced prices. Either situation will strain our borrowers' cash flows and potentially cause deterioration in this segment of our portfolio. The current slowdown in the sales of single-family and residential condominiums, and the related reduction in prices, has affected construction lending activities in our market area. These conditions have led us to curtail much of our construction lending activities. These same conditions have extended the durations of some of our existing construction loans, thereby increasing the risk of possible loss on these loans. 44 Table of Contents Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions, including growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts, in the counties in which we conduct business. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to be unfavorable, our business may be adversely affected. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Essex, Middlesex and, to a lesser extent, Suffolk Counties, in Eastern Massachusetts. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Tenant occupancy rates for commercial real estate and for residential properties have been declining in our market area. In addition, rental rates for both types of properties, particularly commercial, have also been declining. A continued decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, a decline in real estate values, or other factors beyond our control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We May Incur Significant Losses as a Result of Ineffective Risk Management Processes and Strategies. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application may not be effective and may not anticipate every economic and financial outcome in all market environments or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Market conditions over the last several years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. A Decline in Local Real Estate Values Could Reduce Our Profits. A large segment of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Essex and Middlesex Counties. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would reduce our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses, which would reduce our profits. A future decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. For a discussion of our market area, see "Business—Market Area and Competition" on page 6. The Market Price and Trading Volume of Our Common Stock May be Volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: •quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; •operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; •changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; 45 Table of Contents •announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; •the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; •our past and future dividend practices; •future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; and •changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility. If Our Allowance For Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which may require additions to our allowance. Although we are unaware of any specific problems with our loan portfolio that would require any increase in our allowance at the present time, it may need to be increased in the future due to adverse developments affecting our construction loans or our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of C&I and commercial real estate loans. Any material additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. Our business strategy calls for continued growth of commercial real estate loans and C&I loans. These loans typically expose us to greater risk than one- to four-family owner-occupied residential real estate loans. As we further increase the amount of these loans in our loan portfolio, we may increase our provisions for loan losses, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provisions for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Prepayments of Loans May Negatively Impact Our Banking Business. Generally, our customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speed at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within our customers' discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, our interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our profitability, like that of most community banks, depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between our gross interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition depend 46 Table of Contents largely on movements in market interest rates and our ability to manage our interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in response to these movements. We are also subject to reinvestment risk relating to interest rate movements. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are not able to reinvest funds from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, including, in particular, the value of our investment securities portfolio, which is comprised mainly of debt securities. Generally, the value of debt securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity, net of related taxes. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale therefore would have an adverse affect on our stockholders' equity. See "Business—Investment Activities" on page 19. Our Business Depends Upon Key Employees, and if We Are Unable to Retain the Services of These Key Employees or to Attract and Retain Additional Qualified Personnel, Our Business May Suffer. We are substantially dependent on a number of key employees, including our executive officers. Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of our existing key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any one of our key employees, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the quality and profitability of our business operations. In particular, the loss of key commercial loan officers, or the failure to attract and hire additional loan officers to expand our commercial real estate and C&I lending programs could have a material adverse effect on our business strategy. In connection with the conversion, we entered into employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Lending Officer, and our Chief Financial Officer in January 2008. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. We face significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. See "Business—Market Area and Competition" on page 6. Savings banks, credit unions, co-operative banks, savings and loan associations and commercial banks operating in our primary market area have historically provided most of our competition for deposits. In addition, and particularly in times of high interest rates, we face additional and significant competition for funds from money-market mutual funds and issuers of corporate and government securities. Competition for the origination of real estate and other loans comes from other thrift institutions, commercial banks, insurance companies, finance companies, other institutional lenders and mortgage companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have as a community bank. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over us. This advantage places significant competitive pressure on the prices of our loans and deposits. We Continually Encounter Technological Change, and We May Have Fewer Resources Than Many of Our Larger Competitors to Continue to Invest in Technological Improvements. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology 47 Table of Contents to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Failures, interruptions or breaches in security of either of these systems could cause failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any of these failures or disruptions could result in monetary losses or a loss of customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our Financial Statements are Based in Part on Assumptions and Estimates, Which, if Wrong, Could Cause Unexpected Losses in the Future. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. Changes in Accounting Standards Can be Difficult to Predict and Can Materially Impact How we Record and Report our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the FASB changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to anticipate and implement and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the FASB's current financial instruments project could, among other things, significantly change the way loan loss provisions are determined from an incurred loss model to an expected loss model, and may also result in most financial instruments being required to be reported at fair value. We are a Holding Company and Depend on Danversbank for Dividends, Distributions and Other Payments. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from Danversbank and depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from Danversbank to fund dividend payments on our stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations. Danversbank is subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the payment of cash dividends or other distributions from it to us. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. Additionally, if Danversbank's earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our stockholders. Our Stockholders May Not Receive Dividends on the Common Stock. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Further, the Federal Reserve has issued guidelines for evaluating proposals by large bank holding companies to increase dividends or repurchase or redeem shares, which includes a requirement for such firms to develop a capital distribution plan. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it is considering expanding these requirements to cover all bank holding companies, which may in 48 Table of Contents the future restrict our ability to pay dividends. A reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment That Is Subject to Future Change. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination, and the laws, regulations and policies to which we are subject may change at any time. See "Business—Regulation and Supervision" on page 27. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators' supervisory policies or examination procedures, particularly any changes relating to commercial real estate lending, C&I lending or other key components of our business, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress or the Massachusetts legislature, or our failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to regulations promulgated by the Massachusetts Division of Banks, as the chartering authority for Danversbank, and by the FDIC, as well as to certain regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve. We also belong to the FHLBB, and as a member of such system we are subject to certain requirements to continue to participate in the FHLBB programs. In addition, the Federal Reserve regulates Danvers Bancorp as a bank holding company. The purpose of the regulation and supervision to which we are subject is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC's Deposit Insurance Fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Massachusetts's deceptive acts and practices law. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely, or that we will not be found in noncompliance with any law, regulation or policy. Recent Legislative Changes May Increase Our Operating Costs and May Negatively Impact Our Business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") was signed into law. This legislation makes sweeping changes to numerous sectors of the banking and financial industry. Among many other things, Dodd-Frank creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve, imposes clearing and margining requirements on many derivatives activities, and generally increases oversight and regulation of financial institutions and financial activities. It also requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets greater than $500 million to be subject to the same capital requirements as insured depository institutions, meaning, for instance, that such bank holding companies will, going forward, no longer be able to count trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital. However, bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in assets may continue to count existing securities issued before May 19, 2010 in Tier 1 capital if they qualified for inclusion in Tier 1 capital on that date. The CFPB, which will begin operations on July 21, 2011, will have the authority to prescribe rules governing the provision of consumer financial products and services, which may result in rules and regulations that reduce the profitability of such products and services and/or impose greater costs on us and our subsidiaries. 49 Table of Contents In addition to the self-implementing provisions of the statute itself, Dodd-Frank calls for hundreds of administrative rulemakings by various federal agencies to implement various parts of the legislation. Though some rules have already been proposed or finalized, we cannot predict when all additional rules will be proposed and/or finalized, or what the content of any such rules will be. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that affect deposit insurance assessments, the payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with Danversbank's deposit-generating activities, as well as place limitations on the revenues that those deposits may generate. For example, the Federal Reserve has proposed rules governing debit card interchange fees that apply to institutions with greater than $10 billion in assets, and this proposed rule would severely limit the amount that could be charged as a debit card interchange fee. Market forces may effectively require all banks to adopt debit card interchange fee structures which comply with these rules, which will significantly reduce the fee income earned from debit card transactions. The financial reform legislation and any implementing rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and our ability to conduct business. Regulatory Capital Requirements Could Affect Our Operations. Regulators may raise capital requirements above current levels in connection with the implementation of Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act or otherwise, which may require us and Danversbank having to hold additional capital which could limit the manner in which we and Danversbank conduct their business and obtain financing. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III in the United States, or otherwise, could result in us and Danversbank having to lengthen the term of funding, restructure business models, and/or increase holdings of liquid assets. If the federal banking agencies implement a capital conservation buffer and/or a countercyclical capital buffer, as proposed in Basel III, a failure by us or Danversbank to satisfy the applicable buffer's requirements would limit such institution's ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. A Change to the Conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and Related Actions, Along With Any Changes in Laws and Regulations Affecting the Relationship Between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, Could Adversely Affect Our Business. There continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the future of government-sponsored enterprises ("GSEs") Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including whether they both will continue to exist in their current form. We sell many of our residential mortgages to Fannie Mae. Our ability to sell our residential mortgages into the secondary market is an important part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. Due to increased market concerns about the ability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to withstand future credit losses associated with securities on which they provide guarantees and loans held in their investment portfolios without the direct support of the U.S. federal government, in September 2008, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "FHFA") placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship and, together with the U.S. Treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac by supporting the availability of mortgage financing and protecting taxpayers. The U.S. government program includes contracts between the U.S. Treasury and each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that seek to ensure that each GSE maintains a positive net worth by providing for the provision of cash by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac if FHFA determines that its liabilities exceed its assets. Although the U.S. government has described some specific steps that it intends to take as part of the conservatorship process, efforts to stabilize these entities may not be successful and the outcome and impact of these events remain highly uncertain. 50 Table of Contents It is widely anticipated that the U.S. Congress will address GSEs as part of its next major legislative undertaking, although it is not known when, or if, that will occur. In Section 1491 of the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress stated that the "hybrid public-private status of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is untenable and must be resolved" and, further, "[i]t is the sense of the Congress that efforts to enhance by [sic] the protection, limitation, and regulation of the terms of residential mortgage credit and the practices related to such credit would be incomplete without enactment of meaningful structural reforms of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac." In February 2011, the Treasury Department and the Department of Housing and Urban Development issued a report offering three options for restructuring the GSEs' future role in housing finance, all of which involve a much greater role for private financing rather than government guarantees. Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government, could change their business charters or structure, or could nationalize or eliminate such entities entirely. We cannot predict whether, or when, any such legislation may be enacted. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 51 Table of Contents 