Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our business We have incurred net losses in the past and may continue to experience net losses in the future, which may reduce our ability to raise needed capital. We have incurred net losses in the past largely due to amortization of film production costs, inclusive of impairment charges, and interest expense on our outstanding indebtedness. During the year ended December 31, 2008, a non-cash impairment charge of $59.8 million with respect to goodwill was recorded as the result of our stock price declining significantly to a level implying a market capitalization below our book value. During the year ended December 31, 2007, a loss on extinguishment of debt was recorded with respect to the refinancing of our credit facilities. Should we continue to incur losses in the future, our ability to raise needed financing, or to do so on favorable terms, may be limited. We principally operate in one business: the development, production and distribution of long-form television content; our lack of a diversified business could adversely affect us. We derive substantially all of our revenue from the development, production and distribution of MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming. Since we depend on demand for long-form television content, our financial condition would suffer significantly if audience demand for our product declines in the future. This demand is driven by the interests of the viewers and the financial strength of the various networks. Unlike our major competitors, which are divisions of major media companies that generate revenue from a variety of other operations, we depend primarily on the success of our MFT movies and mini-series. In recent years, the major U.S. broadcast networks migrated away from airing long-form television programs in favor of reality programming. If a new type of content becomes popular in the television entertainment industry, or the networks or other buyers of our content perceive changes in audience demand for our content, the ability to license our MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming either domestically or internationally may be negatively impacted and we may suffer significant financial losses. Delays and changed delivery dates can have a material impact on the timing of our revenue recognition and receipt of cash, which may affect our financial results and ultimately decrease the value of our stock price. In accordance with GAAP, we do not recognize revenue from the distribution and licensing of our productions until several criteria are met, including such productions being made available for exhibition by a third party distributor or licensee. Historically, a majority of our annual productions have been completed and made available to our licensees during the third and fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Typically, our MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming are ordered in the beginning of our fiscal year, and produced during the spring and summer, with distribution beginning in the fall. To the extent that we have any production delays due to weather, equipment malfunctions, creative differences or labor strikes, the timing can shift from one quarter to the next, which will cause us to recognize that revenue in the next quarter or fiscal year and have a material impact on our results of operations. If we decide to give guidance on our financial condition or results of operation, we may not achieve those projections due to a variety of factors including those discussed in this report. Furthermore, due to unpredictable factors that may occur during production, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Our success depends on our ability to develop, produce and distribute quality MFT movies and mini-series that achieve acceptance from our target audiences. An uncertainty always exists with the production of television content whose success is subject to viewer tastes and preferences that can change in unpredictable ways. Generally, the popularity of our programs depends on many factors, including the critical acclaim they receive, the genre, the specific subject matter, the actors and other key talent and the format of their initial release. To respond to market demand, we have developed and produced film content outside of our traditional genres, including a number of action/thriller MFT movies targeted at a younger 18-34 year old demographic. We cannot assure you that there will continue to be a demand for these action/thriller 8 Table of Contents movies in broadcast television, PPV and/or home video platforms. In addition, to respond to future market demand, we may need to produce genres that we lack experience in delivering. We cannot assure you that this programming will achieve high ratings. The delivery of a MFT movie or mini-series that does not achieve high ratings can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in at least three ways. First, we rely heavily on our ability to license our original productions several times, but the receipt of low ratings for a particular MFT movie or mini-series will hinder our ability to re-license that program to another customer in the future. Second, the initial customer may decide against licensing the rights to any of our future MFT movies or mini-series due to the lack of profitability from the prior production. Third, one or more MFT movies or mini-series that do not achieve high ratings may cause a negative impact to our reputation and could also cause our significant customers to look to one of our competitors to fulfill their long-form television programming needs. We have a significant concentration of our revenue from a limited number of licensees. In 2008, approximately 71% of our revenue was earned from our top ten customers, with approximately 35% from the Hallmark Channel and 14% from broadcast and cable channels affiliated with Universal Television (NBC and the Sci-Fi Channel). We have decreased our dependence on the Hallmark Channel over the last two years as a result of the reduction of the number of original productions we license to the network. As a percentage of our total original MFT movies and mini-series productions licensed to broadcast and cable networks, the Hallmark Channel comprised approximately 69% in 2006, 28% in 2007 and 11% in 2008. Furthermore, our agreement to produce original programming for the Hallmark Channel, which we have relied upon in the past, expired at the end of 2007 and we have not entered into a renewal agreement. A disruption to, or termination of, our relationship with any of our significant licensees could cause our company to suffer significant financial losses. Additionally, as of December 31, 2008, approximately $145.2 million, or 82%, of the company’s accounts receivable was due from our top ten customers. Because the licensing of our content for network and cable television is highly concentrated, an adverse change in our relationship with any of our significant customers or an adverse change in the financial condition of our customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. We entered into an agreement with Genius for video and digital distribution of our content requiring Genius to provide us with quarterly royalty reports reflecting the financial performance of the titles included under the agreement along with quarterly royalty payments. If Genius does not report or remit to us in a timely manner, if Genius experiences financial difficulties, or if Genius is not successful in distributing our content, it could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on third party licensees to promote, market and advertise our programming to their customer base in order to sustain high television ratings. We have licensed to broadcast and cable networks the right to air our long-form television content. We also license our content to other parties in order to take advantage of emerging distribution platforms, such as PPV. Licensed distributors’ decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of our television content are important in determining the success of our MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming. We do not control the timing and manner in which our customers distribute our productions. Because we rely on those with initial rights in our content to create a high-level of interest in our programming, any decision by them not to distribute or promote one of our productions or, instead, to promote our competitors’ television programs or related products more than they promote ours could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, upon the completion of a license term, we have the ability to re-license the same programming to another party. If during the initial license term, our programming does not enjoy high ratings, our ability to re-license these programs in the future will become difficult and our reputation and opportunity to license new programming may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We place significant reliance on third party production companies to produce our MFT movies and mini-series. Although we have a team of creative personnel who read scripts and evaluate talent, the filming, editing and final production of our films is primarily performed by third party producers and independent contractors. The success of our programming will depend to a degree on our ability and the ability of these third parties to avoid production problems and delays and to hire, retain and motivate top creative talent. Making films is an activity that requires the services of individuals, such as actors, directors and producers, each of whom have unique creative talents. If our production partners experience difficulty in hiring, retaining or motivating creative talent, the production of our films could be delayed or the success of our films could be adversely affected. In 2008, three companies produced a total of approximately 60% of our MFT movies and mini-series. If any of these companies were unable to produce or assist in the production of our MFT movies and mini-series, we would have to expend significant time, money and resources to find another company to produce our content and we may not be able to meet our creative needs and timely completion of our content with a new production company. Our business involves risks of liability claims for entertainment content, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As an owner and distributor of entertainment content, we may face potential liability for: • defamation; • invasion of privacy; • right of publicity or misappropriation; • actions for royalties and accountings; • breach of contract; • negligence; • copyright or trademark infringement (as discussed below); and • other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against broadcasters, producers and distributors of entertainment content. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on certain key employees. Our success greatly depends on our employees. In particular, we are dependent upon the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert Halmi, Jr., select members of our senior management and certain creative employees such as directors and producers. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Halmi, Jr. and with all of our top executive officers and production executives. However, although it is standard in the television industry to rely on employment agreements as a method of retaining the services of key employees, these agreements cannot assure us of the continued services of such employees. Although we carry key employee insurance for Mr. Halmi, Jr., the proceeds from an insurance payout would not compensate for the loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer’s creativity and knowledge of the long-form television business. The loss of Mr. Halmi, Jr.’s services or a substantial group of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We must continue to augment our film library with new titles on an annual basis in order to maintain contracted cash flows generated by our film library. Although we own rights in more than 1,000 titles, comprising over 3,500 broadcast hours, of long-form television programming, we must continue to add to the existing titles in our film library. As audience tastes and 10 Table of Contents demands change over time, some of our older content loses a portion of its licensing value. To meet market demand, we must continue to deliver new content that will achieve high ratings and increased viewership. If we do not augment our film library with new content that will meet market and audience demand, our film library cash flow will decrease and negatively impact our profits. In addition, the size of our film library may decrease over time due to the expiration of our distribution rights to certain titles in our film library. Although we own the distribution rights in perpetuity for the majority of titles in our library, our rights to approximately 39% of the titles in our film library will ultimately expire. By December 31, 2012, our intellectual property rights in 86 of our films, or approximately 8% of our existing titles, will terminate. Therefore, we must continue to develop, produce and distribute new content in an effort to replenish the titles available for distribution and to sustain our business model. We may not be able to sustain our production model of generating contractual sales and collecting a significant portion of our production costs in advance of the delivery of our content to an initial licensee. Historically, our production model has enabled us to contract for and collect license fees recouping the majority of our production costs for our MFT movies and mini-series before delivery of our content to an initial licensee. Although we intend to adhere to our general practice of commencing production when we have contracted license fees for a significant portion of our production costs, we cannot assure you that this will always be the case. We may rely on an alternative means of revenue to recoup our production costs. Under our agreement with ION, licensing revenue is derived from the sale of associated advertising time made available during the airing of our programming. We may determine that there are other ways of licensing our content, or our customers may change the way they license productions and such alternative methods may not include an upfront license fee that recoups a majority of our production costs before we deliver the content. We face risks relating to the international distribution of our films and related products. Because we have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue (37%, 59% and 54% in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively) from the exploitation of our films in territories outside of the United States, our business is subject to risks inherent in international trade, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: • laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes and changes in these laws; • differing cultural tastes and attitudes, including various censorship laws; • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; • financial instability and increased market concentration of buyers in foreign television markets; • the instability of foreign economies and governments; • fluctuating foreign exchange rates; and • war and acts of terrorism. The advancement of video technologies may cause advertisers to shift their expenditures to media in which their commercial messages are not circumvented by technology, leading to a reduction in television advertising and a reduction in demand for our programming. The entertainment industry in general and the television industry in particular continue to undergo significant technological developments. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our business. In particular, broadcast and cable networks place significant reliance on the revenue stream generated from commercial advertising. Since the introduction of video technology such as Digital Video Recording, or DVR, television audiences now have the ability to circumvent commercials while they view television programming, which could negatively impact advertising demand for the advertisers for our content, and could therefore adversely affect our revenue. Similarly, further increases in the use of portable devices 11 Table of Contents that allow users to view content of their own choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements could adversely affect our revenue. If we cannot successfully exploit these and other emerging technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. This technology has impacted the Nielsen ratings, which advertisers utilize to determine the rates for advertising time which they purchase from the television networks. Lower Nielsen ratings may result in a decrease in the amount of advertising revenue received by the networks and the networks may not have sufficient cash flow to license our programming at current rates. Our agreement with ION poses additional risks to our business, including our direct reliance on advertising revenue instead of our traditional revenue generated from licensing fees. Traditionally, our revenue has come from the licensing of our original MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming, as well as licensing content from our film library. In 2007, we began providing programming for ION’s weekend primetime schedule in exchange for the right to receive the revenue from the sale of all but two minutes of advertising inventory per broadcast hour during which our programming airs. We share equally in the revenue generated from our advertising sales with ION after we pay certain guarantee payments to ION, and after we recoup certain costs and expenses, including such guarantee payments. We rely on ION’s advertising sales staff to sell the advertising space directly to advertisers on our behalf. Our agreement provides that we must pay ION a minimum guarantee for the advertising inventory regardless of the amount of advertising revenue actually generated during the year. If advertising spending decreases, or ION’s advertising sales force is unable to sell advertising space for us, the advertising revenue we expect to earn from providing content to ION may be reduced and the value of our film library could be negatively impacted. Consequently, we could potentially fail to recoup our costs related to the ION contract, which would have a material adverse effect on our total cash flow. See “Business — Company strategy — Target new distribution platforms.” We could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity. We do not have any union-represented employees within our company, but we do rely on members of the Screen Actors Guild, the Writers Guild of America, the Directors Guild of America and other guilds in connection with most of our productions. We are currently subject to collective bargaining agreements with these unions and, therefore, must comply with all provisions of those agreements in order to hire actors, directors or writers who are members of these guilds. Provisions in each labor contract with each of the Guilds obligate us to pay residuals to their members based on various criteria including the airing of films or cash collections. If we fail to pay such residuals to those entitled to receive them, any of the unions that represent our actors, writers and directors may have the right to foreclose on the film giving rise to such residual in order to compensate its union members accordingly. Additionally, we may be adversely impacted by work stoppages or strikes. For example, the four-month long strike by the Writers Guild, which ended February 2008, diminished the pool of writers available to us during such work stoppage. The collective bargaining agreement with the Screen Actors Guild expired in June 2008. A halt or delay in negotiating a new industry-wide union contract, depending on the length of time involved, could lead to a strike by union members and cause delays in the development, production and completion of our films. Any new collective bargaining agreements may increase our expenses in the future. Business interruptions and disasters could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to outages and interruptions due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events beyond our control. In addition, we have a film vault located in California and a backup storage facility located in New Jersey. Our California film vault has, in the past, and may, in the future, be subject to earthquakes as well as electrical blackouts as a consequence of a shortage of available electrical power. Although we have developed certain plans to respond in the event of a disaster, there can be no assurance that such plans will be effective in the event of a specific disaster. In addition, we have business interruption insurance as well as property damage insurance to cover losses that stem from an event that could disrupt our business. However, films are unique in nature and cannot be easily reproduced. If our storage facilities were to suffer damage or destruction such that our films were no longer able to be licensed to third parties, our opportunity to generate revenue by re-licensing our content would be limited and would potentially impact our earnings and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We may incur significant expenses in order to protect and defend against intellectual property claims, including claims where others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. We currently own the rights to distribute more than 1,000 titles in our film library. As such, our success depends, in part, upon sufficient protection of our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that we have good title to each of the films in our library. Many of these films were produced by production companies that we hired, but others were acquired. Most notably, we acquired the domestic rights to approximately 550 titles from Crown Media in December 2006. Although the seller made representations that it had legal title to these films at the time of sale, we cannot be certain that legal title to these films was acquired when we consummated the acquisition. There can be no assurance that infringement or misappropriation claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from such claims) will not be asserted or prosecuted against us, or that any assertions or prosecutions will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Notwithstanding the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we would incur significant costs and diversion of resources with respect to the defense thereof, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license of a third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot provide any assurances, however, that under such circumstances a license would be available on reasonable terms or at all. We face a potential loss in the copyrighted works in our library if it is determined that authors or artists have a right to recapture rights in those works under the U.S. Copyright Act. Under the U.S. Copyright Act, authors and their heirs have a non-waiveable statutory right to terminate their earlier assignments and licenses in many copyrighted works by sending notice within a statutorily-defined window of time. The right of termination does not apply to copyrights in “works made for hire” which encompasses most of the copyrights we own. However, with respect to copyrights we license or to the extent that any of the works we have rights in are determined not to be “works made for hire,” a termination right may exist under the U.S. Copyright Act. These rights can provide authors and their heirs an opportunity to renegotiate new and more commercially advantageous arrangements. If that were to come to pass, our net revenue associated with those works could decrease. Our intellectual property rights may not be enforceable in certain foreign jurisdictions. We attempt to protect our proprietary and intellectual property rights in our productions through available copyright and trademark laws as well as through licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and for limited durations. We rely on copyright laws to protect the works of authorship created by us or transferred to us via assignment or by operation of law as “works made for hire.” We have generally recorded or registered our copyright and trademark interests in the United States. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws vary from country to country and the laws of some countries in which our productions are marketed may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do U.S. laws, or at all. Furthermore, although copyrights and trademarks that arise under United States and United Kingdom law will be recognized in most other countries (as most countries are signatories to the Berne Convention, the Universal Copyright Convention and the Madrid Protocol), we cannot guarantee that courts in other jurisdictions will afford our copyrights and trademarks the same treatment as do courts in the United States or the United Kingdom. Although we believe that our intellectual property is enforceable in most jurisdictions, we cannot guarantee such validity or enforceability. Competition within our industry could reduce our licensing revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. We operate in the highly competitive business of developing, producing and distributing long-form television programming. If we are unable to compete effectively with large diversified entertainment companies that have substantially greater resources than us, our operating margins and market share could be reduced, and the growth of our business inhibited. In particular, we compete with other television production and distribution companies, such as Buena Vista International Television, Paramount Television and Sony Pictures Television. A continuing trend towards business combinations and alliances in the communications industries may create significant new 13 Table of Contents competitors for us or intensify existing competition. Many of these combined entities have resources far greater than ours. These combined entities may provide programming and other services that compete directly with our offered programming. We may need to reduce our prices or license additional programming to remain competitive, and we may be unable to sustain future pricing levels as competition increases. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our programming at desired pricing levels could impair our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, third party producers, whom we heavily rely on to produce our productions, are capable of developing, producing and distributing their own content to cable and broadcast networks. If this were to occur, these third party producers could subject us to further competition in the industry. Our preliminary plans for developing additional revenue and distribution opportunities may not be implemented, may require substantial expenditures and may not be achieved. In addition to growing our broadcast and cable network customer base for distribution of our content, we are also considering other potential opportunities for revenue growth. We believe that our on-going development and production of new content and our extensive library may provide us with the ability to exploit new business opportunities such as licensing our content to emerging distribution platforms, including PPV, iTunes, mobile devices and online applications. Some of these plans are at an early stage, and we may not actually proceed with all of them. Furthermore, for those we do proceed with, we cannot assure you that such plans will be successful or profitable. We may incur accelerated film amortization or significant write-offs if our estimate of total revenue for each film is not accurate. We use the individual film-forecast-computation method to amortize our capitalized film production costs. We are required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as we recognize revenue from each of the associated films. The amount of film production costs that will be amortized depends on the amount of future revenue we expect to receive from each film. If estimated ultimate revenue declines, amortization of capitalized film costs will be accelerated and future margins may be lower than expected. If estimated ultimate revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. Such accelerated amortization would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, we base our estimates of revenue on a variety of information, including recent sales data from domestic and major international licenses and other sources. If the estimates are not correct, and our internal controls over such information do not detect such an error, the amount of revenue and related expenses that we recognize could be incorrect, which could result in fluctuations in our earnings. We have accessed a variety of film production incentives and subsidies offered by foreign countries and the United States which reduce our production costs. If these incentives and subsidies become less accessible to us or to our production partners, or if they are eliminated, modified, denied or revoked, our production costs could substantially increase. Production incentives and subsidies for film production are widely used throughout the industry and are important in helping to offset production costs. Many foreign countries, the United States and individual states have programs designed to attract production. Canada is a notable example. Incentives and subsidies are used to reduce production costs and such incentives and subsidies take different forms, including direct government rebates, sale and leaseback transactions or transferable tax credits. We have benefited from these financial incentives and subsidies in Canada as well as in Germany, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Hungary, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand and the United States. The laws and procedures governing these production incentives are subject to change. For example, the federal tax law in the United States that permits us to access a transferable tax credit to reduce costs on our domestic productions is set to expire on December 31, 2009 and the prospects for its renewal are uncertain. If this law is not renewed, or if we or our production partners are unable to access any of these incentives and subsidies because they are modified or eliminated, we may be forced to restructure the financing of our film productions, increasing the likelihood that our inability to offset production costs will cause our profits to decrease. Further, the applications for these incentives and subsidies often are prepared and filed by our production partners, rather than by us, and they are subject to guidelines and criteria mandated by foreign, United States or state 14 Table of Contents governments. We do not control the application or approval processes. If these applications are denied or revoked for any reason, impacting the operations of our production partners, we may be forced to restructure the financing of our film productions. Failure to achieve the cost savings that we have historically achieved could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For further discussion on these production incentives and subsidies, see “Business — The production, marketing and distribution of our films — Production incentives and subsidies.” We have been managing a public company for less than one year. As a public entity, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Sarbanes-Oxley requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, significant resources and management oversight will be required. Since consummation of our initial public offering (IPO) in June 2008, we have begun to implement additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. In addition, sustaining our growth will require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identify new professionals to join our company and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support this expansion. These activities may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to these steps including, among other things, additional directors and officers’ liability insurance, director fees, reporting requirements of the SEC, transfer agent fees, hiring of additional accounting, legal and administrative personnel, increased auditing and legal fees and similar expenses. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our existing senior secured credit facilities. As of December 31, 2008, our total long-term debt outstanding was $576.8 million and we had $22.4 million of cash on hand. In addition, subject to the restrictions under our various debt agreements, we may borrow additional amounts under our existing senior secured credit facilities to fund operating cash flow requirements, finance capital expenditures or for other purposes. We expect that the principal sources of funds during 2009 will be from our existing senior secured credit facilities, our cash generated from operations and our cash on hand. Our ability to meet our debt and other obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors. High levels of interest expense could have negative effects on our future operations. As of December 31, 2008, all of our debt was variable rate and totaled $576.8 million. To manage the related interest rate risk, we entered into interest rate swap agreements. As of December 31, 2008, we had floating to fixed interest rate swaps outstanding in the notional amount of $435.0 million, effectively converting that amount of debt from variable rate to fixed rate. Our interest expense, which is net of capitalized interest and includes amortization of debt issuance costs, totaled $40.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to pay our interest expense and will not be available for other business purposes. As a result of our level of debt and the terms of our debt instruments: • our vulnerability to adverse general economic conditions is heightened; • we will be required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to repayment of debt, limiting the availability of cash for other purposes; • we are and will continue to be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in our ability to borrow additional funds, consummate asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates or conduct mergers and acquisitions; 15 Table of Contents • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry will be limited; and • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired. We believe that our existing senior secured credit facilities, together with cash generated from operations and cash on hand, will be sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, any significant expense not included in our internal budget, or any development that hampers our growth in revenue or decreases any of our revenue, may result in the need for additional external funds in order to continue operations. At this time, we do not have any arrangements for external financings, whether debt or equity, and are not certain whether any such new external financing would be available on acceptable terms. We may seek additional capital through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of equity or other financing alternatives. Any new debt financing would require the cooperation and agreement of our existing lenders. Given current credit and equity market conditions, our ability to attract additional capital may be significantly more difficult than it has been in the past. See “Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition & Results of Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by a worldwide macroeconomic downturn. As a result, the market price of our common stock may decline. In 2008, general worldwide economic conditions experienced a downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our original programming and library content, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. These conditions could also affect our customers’ ability to pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or in the entertainment industry, generally, or specifically in the advertising and television market. If the television market significantly deteriorates due to these macroeconomic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, our stock price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by a worldwide macroeconomic downturn. Our focus on managing our resources in the most efficient manner may result in a reduction in our production slate. Given current credit and equity market conditions, our ability to attract additional capital may be significantly more difficult. At December 31, 2008, we had $22.4 million of cash on hand and $19.8 million available under our revolving credit facility, net of an outstanding letter of credit, subject to the terms and conditions of that facility. In an effort to utilize our resources most efficiently, we are continually reviewing our operations for opportunities to adjust the timing of expenditures to ensure that sufficient resources are maintained. For example, we have asked our production partners to finance a significant portion of the cost of each new production without short-term financial support from us. If our production partners cannot finance a substantial portion of a film’s cost through the use of new or existing credit facilities of their own, we may not develop or produce that film. As a result, the number of films in our new production slate may be reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our production revenue. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Risks related to our corporate structure We are a holding company with no operations of our own, and we will depend on the distributions from Holdings II to meet our ongoing obligations and to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and we have no independent ability to generate revenue. Consequently, our ability to obtain operating funds depends upon distributions from Holdings II. The 16 Table of Contents distribution of cash flows and other transfers of funds by Holdings II to us will be subject to statutory and contractual restrictions contained in RHI LLC’s existing senior secured credit facilities and the Holdings II LLC Agreement. RHI LLC’s existing senior secured credit facilities will limit RHI LLC’s ability to distribute cash to its members, including Holdings II, based upon certain leverage tests. We will be unable to pay dividends to our stockholders or pay other expenses outside the ordinary course of business if Holdings II is unable to distribute cash to us. Because Holdings II is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, we, as a member of Holdings II, will incur U.S. federal and state income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of Holdings II. To the extent we need funds to pay such taxes or for any other purpose, and Holdings II is unable to provide such funds because of limitations in RHI LLC’s existing senior secured credit facilities or other restrictions, such inability to pay could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. We are required to pay KRH for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we receive in connection with our acquisition of units of Holdings II from KRH and related transactions. KRH is entitled to exchange its common membership units in Holdings II for, at our option, shares of RHI Inc. common stock on a one-for-one basis (as adjusted to account for stock splits, recapitalizations, investments or similar events) or cash, or a combination of both stock and cash. Holdings II intends to make a special tax election pursuant to Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code, entitling us to a special tax basis adjustment in the assets of Holdings II that are attributable to the units acquired by us in the exchange. These increases in tax basis may increase our proportionate share of Holdings II’s depreciation and amortization deductions for tax purposes and therefore reduce the amount of tax that RHI Inc. would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge. RHI Inc. and KRH are parties to a tax receivable agreement that provides for the payment by us to KRH of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that RHI Inc. realizes (or is deemed to realize in the case of an early termination payment by RHI Inc.) as a result of these increases in tax basis and of certain other tax benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. Generally, such payments are required to be made annually. However, at any time that the present value of the payments that are forecasted to be made under the agreement, based on certain assumptions, is equal to or less than $25.0 million and KRH owns less than 10% of the outstanding common membership units in Holdings II, KRH may, subject to any contractual or legal restrictions, require RHI Inc. to pay the present value amount; provided, however, that RHI Inc. may elect to pay such amount in, at its option, shares of RHI Inc. common stock, cash or a combination of both stock and cash. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of our common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that as a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the assets of Holdings II, the payments that we may make to KRH will be substantial. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon KRH’s continued ownership of Holdings II. KRH will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances payments to KRH under the tax receivable agreement could be in excess of our cash tax savings. For example, after paying reduced amounts to tax authorities, if it is determined as a result of an income tax audit or examination that any amount of our claimed tax benefits should not have been available, we may be required to pay additional taxes and possibly penalties and interest to one or more tax authorities. 17 Table of Contents The Holdings II LLC Agreement, Director Designation Agreement and other corporate organizational documents effectively provide for KRH, under certain circumstances, to exercise a greater degree of influence in, and control over, the operation of our business and the management of our affairs. Even though KRH or its affiliates own a minority economic interest in Holdings II, they may be able to continue to exercise a greater degree of influence in Holdings II. RHI Inc. is the sole managing member of Holdings II and controls all of the operations of Holdings II. KRH does not have the ability to elect or vote for the managing member of Holdings II. However, pursuant to a director designation agreement between RHI Inc. and KRH, so long as KRH holds at least 30% of the outstanding common membership units in Holdings II, then KRH has the right to designate four director designees to RHI Inc.’s seven-member board of directors who will be voted upon, and possibly elected by our shareholders. Consequently, KRH has the potential ability to control our board of directors and ultimately our business by owning less than 50% of the economic interest in Holdings II. If KRH owns at least 5%, but less than 30%, of the outstanding common membership units in Holdings II, then KRH has the right to designate a number of designees to RHI Inc.’s board of directors, constituting a minority of the members of our board of directors. Pursuant to the Holdings II LLC Agreement, if any director designee of KRH is not appointed to our board, nominated by us or elected by our stockholders, as applicable, then KRH will be entitled to approve certain significant actions taken by the RHI Inc. board with respect to decisions made for Holdings II or its subsidiaries (and Holdings II will not permit any of its subsidiaries to take any such action without the approval of KRH). Under these circumstances, our corporate governance documents allow KRH and its affiliates to exercise a greater degree of influence in the operation of our business and the management of our affairs than is typically available to stockholders of a publicly traded company. Even though KRH or its affiliates own a minority economic interest in Holdings II, they may be able to continue exerting a high degree of influence over Holdings II. KRH or its affiliates may have interests that differ from those of our public stockholders and they may be able to influence our affairs. As of December 31, 2008, KRH owned approximately 42.3% of the common membership units in Holdings II. Accordingly, KRH has the ability to designate nominees for a majority of directors to our board, and thereby potentially control our management and affairs. In addition, because KRH holds its ownership interest in our business through Holdings II, rather than through the public company, KRH may have conflicting interests with holders of our common stock. For example, KRH may have different tax positions from us which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, and whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration KRH’s tax considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. The members of KRH could sell their interests in KRH in one or more transactions, which could result in one or more third parties sharing control or controlling KRH. The agreements between us and KRH were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and may contain different terms than comparable agreements with unaffiliated third parties. The contractual agreements that we have with KRH were negotiated in the context of an affiliated relationship in which representatives of KRH and its affiliates comprise a majority of our board of directors. As a result, the financial provisions and the other terms of these agreements, such as covenants, contractual obligations on our part and on the part of KRH, and termination and default provisions may be less favorable to us than terms that we might have obtained in negotiations with unaffiliated third parties in similar circumstances. Any future exchange of common membership units by Holdings II for common stock could dilute the voting power of our common stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our common stock. KRH is entitled to exchange its common membership units in Holdings II for, at our option, shares of RHI Inc. common stock on a one-for-one basis (as adjusted to account for stock splits, recapitalizations or similar events) or cash, or a combination of both stock and cash. Because a significant number of common membership units of 18 Table of Contents Holdings II are held by KRH, if KRH elects to exchange such units and if we elect to issue common stock rather than cash upon such exchange, the voting power of our common stockholders could be diluted. If we or KRH are determined to be an investment company, we would become subject to burdensome regulatory requirements and our business activities could be restricted. We do not believe that we are an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the ICA. As sole manager of Holdings II, we control Holdings II, and our interest in Holdings II is not an “investment security” as that term is used in the ICA. If we were to stop participating in the management of Holdings II, our interest in Holdings II could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the ICA. Generally, a company is an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (excluding U.S. government securities and cash items). Our sole asset is our equity interest in Holdings II. A determination that such asset was an investment security could result in our being considered an investment company under the ICA. As a result, we would become subject to registration and other burdensome requirements of the ICA. In addition, the requirements of the ICA could restrict our business activities, including our ability to issue securities. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not deemed an investment company under the ICA. However, if anything were to occur that would cause us to be deemed to be an investment company, we would become subject to restrictions imposed by the ICA. These restrictions, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operations. We also rely on representations of KRH that it is not an investment company under the ICA. If deemed to be an investment company, the restrictions placed upon KRH might inhibit its ability to fulfill its obligations under its agreements with us or restrict the ability of Holdings II to borrow funds. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other material agreements contain anti-takeover protections that may discourage or prevent strategic transactions, including a takeover of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, the Holdings II LLC Agreement, the director designation agreement, other reorganization agreements, our credit agreements and provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, could delay or prevent a third party from entering into a strategic transaction with us, even if such a transaction would benefit our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • establish supermajority approval requirements by our directors before our board may take certain actions; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares, making a takeover more difficult and expensive; • establish a classified board of directors; • allow removal of directors only for cause; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and • provide that KRH will be able to exercise a greater degree of influence over the operations of Holdings II, which may discourage other nominations to our board of directors, if any director nominee designated by KRH is not elected by our stockholders. So long as KRH holds at least 30% of common membership units in Holdings II, the director designation agreement affords KRH the right to designate four director designees to our seven-member board of directors who will be voted upon and possibly elected by our shareholders. The Holdings II LLC Agreement requires that at least 75% of our directors approve many types of transactions and actions. Moreover, if any of KRH’s designees are not elected to our board of directors, KRH will have the right, under the Holdings II LLC Agreement, to approve many 19 Table of Contents types of transactions and actions. The Holdings II LLC Agreement also provides that we will owe a fiduciary duty to the non-managing members of Holdings II relating to our business. Therefore, our board of directors is obligated to consider the interests of KRH, and any other members of Holdings II, when making strategic operating decisions. Our tax receivable agreement with KRH contains a change of control provision, which, if triggered, would require us to make a one-time cash payment to KRH equal to the present value of the payments that are forecasted to be made under the agreement based on certain assumptions. Furthermore, our senior secured credit agreements contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, would require us, at our lenders’ option, to prepay our credit facilities. The foregoing provisions and restrictions, along with those in our formation and reorganization documents, could keep us from pursuing relationships with strategic partners and from raising additional capital, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. These restrictions could also limit stockholder value by impeding a sale of us or Holdings II. Risks related to an investment in our common stock Our future issuance of preferred stock could dilute the voting power of our common stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our common stock. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock, either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock. The sale of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares, which in turn could negatively impact our share price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our shares of common stock in the public market (or the perception that such sales may occur) could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of our equity securities. As of December 31, 2008, 13,505,100 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. KRH holds common membership units in Holdings II that are exchangeable into shares of our common stock (or cash at our option) and KRH may wish to sell some or all of its shares of common stock in the future. We also may issue our shares of common stock from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares that we may issue may in turn be significant. In addition, we may also grant registration rights covering those shares in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Because we have not paid dividends and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, you should not expect to receive dividends on shares of our common stock. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not currently intend to do so in the near future. However, our board of directors has discretion to determine if and when a dividend will be payable in the future. Our board will likely consider a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, future prospects for the business, the company’s cash requirements and any other factors that the board deems relevant. In addition, our current senior secured credit facilities contain covenants prohibiting the payment of cash dividends without the consent of our lenders. 20 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile. Before our initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock, and an active trading market for our common stock may not continue. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations over the past year. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected the market price of our common stock and may continue to do so, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our stock price may fluctuate or decline due to a variety of factors, including: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of other companies; • announcements relating to actions of other media companies, strategic relationships, acquisitions or industry consolidation; • terrorist acts or wars; and • general economic, market and political conditions not related to our business. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies and ultimately have an adverse effect on our stock price. As a public company, we are required to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley no later than December 31, 2009. We are in the process of evaluating our internal control systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to assess, our internal controls over financial reporting. We have engaged consultants to assist us with our Section 404 compliance process. We cannot be certain, however, as to the timing of the completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, nor can we assure you that our compliance with Section 404 will not result in significant additional expenditures. As a public company, we are required to disclose, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness.” A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory agencies such as the SEC. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 or the disclosure by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and the trading price of our common stock may decline. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our access to the capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the NASDAQ Stock Market listing requirements. The requirements of these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to hire more staff to comply with these requirements, which will increase our costs. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our board of directors. Additionally, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and 21 Table of Contents more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 