Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves many risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Form 10-K and in our other documents filed with the SEC before making an investment decision. In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K and in our other documents filed with the SEC are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently believe are not material may also adversely affect our business. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K and in our other documents filed with the SEC actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way. Risks Related to Our Business We have continued to experience losses from our ongoing operations and we have doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have continued to experience losses from our ongoing operations and have doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have begun to generate significant revenues from our water management activities. On October 15, 2011, our Chairman executed a letter of guarantee in our favor for up to two million dollars of credit support if needed to fund future operations. This letter of guarantee has been extended through December 31, 2013. We have also raised additional capital through the sale of our securities in the public market. However, we will be required to raise additional funding to fully implement our entire business plan. Our financial position has been adversely affected by our lack of working capital and the overall deterioration across all capital markets. We have a limited operating history, and our business may not be as successful as we envision. We are in an early stage of our current business plan. We have a limited operating history with respect to the construction and operation of water management facilities for “unconventional” oil and gas exploration and production activities. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. Therefore, our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the initial expenses, challenges, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the water management industry in general. Investors should evaluate an investment in our company in light of the problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies attempting to develop markets for new products, services and technologies. Despite our best efforts, we may never overcome these obstacles to achieve financial success. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our new business strategy, as well as our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for necessary financing for the construction of facilities related to our water management operations. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or result in revenue or profit. There is no assurance that we will generate significant revenues or that our investors will not lose their entire investment. We have significant debt that could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a relatively high amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness of approximately $13.4 million. Because we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on our debt, that portion of our cash flow is not available for other purposes. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired by our leverage and existing debt covenants. Our indebtedness could result in the following: 11 Table of Contents • Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; • force us to sell assets or seek additional capital to service our indebtedness, which we may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We are dependent upon our key personnel. Our operations and financial success will significantly depend on our managerial personnel. Our managerial personnel have the right to make all decisions with respect to management and operation of our business and affairs. We are dependent on our executive officers and key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we lose members of our management team. Other than an employment agreement with Mr. Hoopes, our interim Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer, we have not entered into any employment agreements with any of our management personnel nor have we obtained “key man” life insurance on any of their lives. Further, our officers’ and directors’ allocation of their time to other business interests could have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our business objectives. All of our officers are required to commit their full work hour time to our business affairs with the exception of one officer. We may not be able to meet our capital requirements. Capital expenditures to build and operate our water management facilities, hiring qualified management and key employees, complying with licensing, registration and other requirements, maintaining compliance with applicable laws, production and marketing activities, administrative requirements, such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, legal compliance costs and accounting expenses will all require a substantial amount of additional capital and cash flow. Our subsidiary, GreenHunter Water, has identified water hauling capacity as a constrained resource in our target areas of operations and we are actively pursuing contracts for this service as part of our Total Water Management Solutions portfolio offering. Our ability to generate revenues in this market is dependent our ability to source capital for expansion, hire and train operating personnel and maintain our fleet of equipment so it is available when needed. We will be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects, which may include a profit sharing component, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that we will be successful in locating a suitable financing or strategic business combination transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely, and these are likely to be dilutive to the existing stockholders as we issue additional shares of common stock to investors in future financing transactions and as these financings trigger anti-dilution adjustments in existing equity-linked securities. Also, the terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely affect our financial results. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets, both generally and specifically in the renewable energy and water management industry, and the fact that we are a new enterprise without a proven operating history. Some of the contractual arrangements governing our operations may require us to maintain minimum capital, and we may lose our contract rights if we do not have the required minimum capital. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from any future operations, are not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. Risks Related to Our Water Management Business We are subject to United States federal, state and local regulations regarding issues of health, safety, transportation, and protection of natural resources and the environment. Under these regulations, we may become liable for penalties, damages or costs of remediation. Any changes in laws and government regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing are expected to result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions for oil and gas explorers and producers. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Sponsors of two companion bills, which are currently pending in the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works Committee have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, this legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens for oil and natural gas operators. Several states are also considering implementing, or in some instances, have implemented, new regulations pertaining to hydraulic fracturing, including the disclosure of chemicals used in connection therewith. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process would make it more difficult and more expensive to complete new wells in the unconventional shale resource formations and increase costs of compliance and doing business for oil and natural gas operators. As a result of such increased costs, or results of operations could be negatively affected. Our water management operations are subject to other United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety, waste management, and transportation and disposal of produced-water and other materials. For example, our water management business segment is expected to include disposal into injection wells that could pose some risks of environmental liability, including leakage from the wells to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Liability under these laws and regulations could result in cancellation of well operations, fines and penalties, expenditures for remediation, and liability for property damage and personal injuries. Sanctions for noncompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations also may include assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, revocation of permits and issuance of corrective action orders. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, and, to a lesser extent, orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict and/or joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. Demand for our water management services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. A substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for our water management services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are 13 Table of Contents generally dependent on the industry’s view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. The prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and may be affected by a variety of factors, including the following: • demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels for oil; • oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries; • the level of excess production capacity; • political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest; • the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • weather conditions. The oil and gas industry historically has experienced periodic downturns. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for our water management services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our water management activities and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves using water, sand, and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. The federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the Underground Injection Control provisions of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to exclude hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection” and associated permitting requirements under certain circumstances. However, the repeal of this exclusion has been advocated by certain advocacy organizations and others in the public. Legislation to amend the SDWA to repeal this exemption and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, were proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Similar legislation could be introduced in the current session of Congress or at the state level. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways, with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, having commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing. In 2010, a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives undertook investigations into hydraulic fracturing practices, including requesting information from various field services companies. The U.S. Department of the Interior has announced that it will consider regulations relating to the use of hydraulic fracturing techniques on public lands and disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents. In addition, some states and localities have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations or ordinances that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, or that would impose higher taxes, fees or royalties on natural gas production. Moreover, public debate over hydraulic fracturing and shale gas production has been increasing and has resulted in delays of well permits in some areas. 14 Table of Contents Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, incurred by our customers or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations or ordinances regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells and an associated decrease in demand for our water management activities, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We currently do not have the necessary technology for the treatment of water used in the hydraulic fracturing process and will need to acquire or license such technology prior to expanding our operations into this area. Although we have begun to enter into agreements relating to water management activities for use in the oil and gas industry, we currently do not have the necessary technology for the treatment of water used in the hydraulic fracturing process. We will need to acquire or license such technology prior to entering into this segment of our contemplated future operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or license such technology at all or on terms favorable to us. The failure to obtain such technology could have a material adverse effect on us and could restrict our ability to successfully enter into the water treatment business. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, droughts, climate change, and other adverse natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Our ability to provide water management operations is subject to the availability of water, which is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including extended droughts and temperature extremes, which are quite common, but difficult to predict and may be influenced by global climate change. This risk is particularly true with respect to regions where oil and gas operations are significant. In extreme cases, entire operations may be unable to continue without substantial water reserves. These factors can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Salt water injection wells potentially may create earthquakes. In December 2011, the state of Ohio shut down a disposal site because it was determined that the disposal facility was completed into a previously unknown fault line and may have been a contributing factor in creating low energy earthquakes. We are not currently insured for earthquake coverage in Ohio, but we are evaluating options for business interruption insurance that may provide coverage for a disposal well being shut-in by a geological event. Risks Relating to Our Biomass Facility We have been unable to obtain additional financings for the completion of the construction and retrofitting of the biomass facility and there is a substantial risk that it may not become operational. We have been unable to obtain the additional financing to fund additional capital expenditures for the completion of the construction and retrofitting the biomass facility. Without this additional financing, we have been unable to complete the biomass facility. It is not management’s intention to attempt to complete the construction and retrofitting of the biomass project at this time. Our inability to enter interconnection agreements would restrict our ability to sell electricity. We may be unable to enter into necessary interconnection agreements. We would be required to enter into certain interconnection agreements with electric utilities prior to selling electricity. The failure to enter into such interconnection agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on us. 15 Table of Contents Environmental laws related to our ownership or operation of our biomass facility subject us to potential liability that we may be unaware. Federal, state and local laws impose liability on a landowner for releases or the otherwise improper presence on the premises of hazardous substances. This liability is without regard to fault for, or knowledge of, the presence of such substances. A landowner may be held liable for hazardous materials brought onto the property before it acquired title and for hazardous materials that are not discovered until after it sells the property. Similar liability may occur under applicable state law. In addition, we could face environmental liability for violations on or related to ownership of the biomass facility. If any hazardous materials are found within our operations and are in violation of the law at any time, we may be liable for all cleanup costs, fines, penalties and other costs. This potential liability will continue after we sell or cease operations on any subject properties and may apply to hazardous materials present within the properties before we acquired or commenced use of them. If significant losses arise from hazardous substance contamination, our financial viability may be substantially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks related to other environmental laws, rules, and regulations. Electric utilities and electric power plants such as the biomass facility are subject to continuing environmental regulation. Federal, state and local standards and procedures which regulate the environmental impact of electric utilities are subject to change. These changes may arise from continuing legislative, regulatory and judicial action regarding such standards and procedures. Consequently, there is no assurance that the biomass facility or the district will remain subject to the regulations currently in effect, will always be in compliance with future regulations, or will always be able to obtain all required operating permits. An inability to comply with environmental standards could result in additional capital expenditures to comply, reduced operating levels or the complete shutdown of individual electric generating units not in compliance. There is concern by the public, the scientific community, President Obama’s administration and Congress regarding environmental damage resulting from the use of fossil fuels. Certain political groups and members of Congress support the increased regulation of air, water and soil contaminants, and there are a number of pending or recently enacted legislative proposals which may affect the electric utility industry. There has also been an increased level of environmental enforcement by the EPA and state and local authorities. Increased environmental regulations under the provisions of the federal Clean Air Act have created certain barriers to new facility development and modification of existing facilities. The additional costs, including time, human resources, uncertainty and delay, and the risk of fines and penalties for noncompliance, could affect the rate of return relating to investment in power project development. As such, there may be additional costs for purchased power from affected resources. Moreover, these additional costs may upset our existing cost assumptions for utilities, and thus negatively affect our results of operations from our biomass facility. We cannot predict at this time whether any additional legislation or rules will be enacted which will affect the project or the operations of the biomass facility, and if such laws or rules are enacted, what the costs to us might be in the future because of such action. 16 Table of Contents However, costs of owning and operating the biomass facility may, in the future, be adversely affected by legislative, regulatory, administrative and enforcement actions involving environmental controls. We are subject to risks from seismic activity and our insurance may be inadequate to cover losses resulting from such activity. The biomass facility is located in a seismically active region and is subject to seismic events, including, ground shaking, liquefaction and landslides. According to the 2007 Uniform California Earthquake Rupture Forecast, California has a 99.7% chance of having a magnitude 6.7 or larger earthquake during the next 30 years. Our obligation to provide electric power under the power purchase agreement may be abated in the event of earthquake or other event of force majeure. The construction contracts contain standard force majeure provisions that relieve the parties of their obligations to the extent they are prevented from performing due to an event of force majeure (which could include earthquakes). Under the contract we have for the installation of the biomass facility’s boiler, the guaranteed mechanical completion date can be extended due to force majeure, and the deadline to complete performance testing and to deliver the equipment under the fuel yard contract can also be extended due to force majeure. Damage from an earthquake can range from total destruction of the biomass facility, to destabilization or liquefaction of the soils, to little or no damage at all. The extent of damage and the long-term effects from an earthquake, particularly ongoing earthquake activity, may be difficult to determine immediately. Such effects may negatively affect our results of operations. Potential electric power limitations may impact our biomass facility. The biomass facility will deliver its electric output to the district, at a point of transfer on the biomass facility site. The district will be responsible for transmission of the delivered energy from the point of transfer to its own system. The district has performed studies which demonstrate that there are no constraints on the transmission system which would require curtailment of power production by the biomass facility, but to the extent there are such curtailments, this could adversely affect production and revenues of the biomass facility. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Securities Our common stock has only been publicly traded since January 2, 2008, and the price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since then and may fluctuate substantially in the future. Moreover, our Series C Preferred Stock has only been publicly traded since July 31, 2012 and has been traded in low volumes. Our common stock has been publicly traded only since January 2008. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since then. From January 2, 2008, to March 28, 2013, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $0.51 per share to a high of $25.45 per share and the closing trading price on March 28, 2013 was $1.54 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • Changing conditions in fuel markets; • Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • Changes in market valuations of comparable companies; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Future sales of our capital stock; • Tax and other regulatory developments; • Our ability to develop and complete facilities, and to introduce and market the energy created by such facilities to economically viable production volumes in a timely manner; and • Other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this document. 17 Table of Contents Moreover, our Series C Preferred Stock has only been publicly traded since July 31, 2012 and has been traded in low volumes. If we issue additional shares in the future, it will result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, does not permit the holders of our common stock the right to subscribe for additional shares of capital stock upon any issuance or increase thereof. As a result, if we choose to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our stockholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata ownership of common stock. The issuance of additional securities will result in a reduction of the book value and market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we issue any such additional shares or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all current stockholders who do not purchase such shares. Further, such issuance may result in a change of control of our company. There is no assurance that further dilution will not occur in the future. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination or acquire assets, which would dilute the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes the issuance of up to 90,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of March 28, 2013, there were 56,555,555 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock and 8,173,786 authorized but unissued shares of our preferred stock. As of March 28, 2013, other than 25,000 common shares to be issued to an officer, we had no commitments to issue additional shares of common stock but we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock, preferred stock or convertible securities, or a combination of common stock, preferred stock and convertible securities, to the stockholders of a potential target or in connection with a related simultaneous financing to complete a business combination or asset purchase. The issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock or convertible securities may: • significantly dilute the equity interest of current stockholders in our Company; • subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to holders of our common stock; • cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and possibly result in the resignation or removal of some or all of our present officers and directors; and • adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, our issuance of additional debt securities could result in the following: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination or asset purchase are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness, even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, or change of control provisions, and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding 18 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, and others hired to manage the acquired business and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. However, we cannot presently ascertain the future role of our key personnel in the target business. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage in connection with a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating as part of a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources familiarizing them with such requirements. This process could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers’ and directors’ allocation of their time to other business interests could have a negative impact. All of our officers are required to commit their full work hour time to our business affairs, with the exception of Mr. Evans and Mr. Trosclair. Due to existing management and board of director positions and other business interests that Mr. Evans maintains with other companies, including Magnum Hunter Resources Corporation, Mr. Evans cannot commit all of his work hours to GreenHunter. However, subject to Board approval where appropriate, all material corporate, strategic and financial decisions will be reviewed and ultimately decided by Mr. Evans. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate attractive business combinations. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities with business objectives similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation may give others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to successfully complete an acquisition of a target business, our business plan will be thwarted and investors may lose their entire investment. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination, asset purchase or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination or asset purchase. We cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of any specific capital raise prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or asset purchase, we may be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination or asset purchase, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination or asset purchase and seek an alternative target. In addition, if we consummate a business combination or asset purchase, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. 19 Table of Contents In the event we cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or we acquire a business that is unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. As a reporting public company, we are currently subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, such statute also requires an evaluation of any target business acquired by us. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal controls, including an evaluation of any target businesses acquired by a company. In the event the internal controls over financial reporting of a target business cannot satisfy the regulatory requirements relating to internal controls or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, we may not be able to complete a business combination with the target business without substantial cost or significant risks to our company or our management may be unable to certify as to the effectiveness of the internal controls following the completion of a business combination. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources or may prevent a business combination with certain target businesses. If we fail to timely complete our evaluation, if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of the internal controls of our company or the acquired business, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Our outstanding options, warrants, convertible promissory notes, and convertible preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these options and warrants or conversion of the preferred stock could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised or converted, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our options, warrants and preferred stock may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of a sale, of the shares underlying the options, warrants and preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If, and to the extent, these options, warrants and preferred stock are exercised or converted, respectively, you may experience dilution to your holdings. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and thus stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and investment opportunities. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover. In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place that will inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our Series C Preferred Stock and our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, bylaws and certain other agreements contain certain provisions that may discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include, but are not limited to, the following: • staggered-terms of service for our board of directors; • the authorization of the board of directors to issue shares of undesignated preferred stock in one or more series without the specific approval of the stockholders; 20 Table of Contents • the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and • the fact that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by our Chairman, President , upon the request of a majority of our board of directors, or by the President or Secretary at the request in writing of the holders of not less than 30% of all the shares issued, outstanding and entitled to vote. All of these provisions could impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Ongoing losses may prevent us from paying dividends on our Series C Preferred Stock. As we have continued to experience ongoing losses from our current operations we may be prevented or unable to pay dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock in the future. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our new business strategy, as well as our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for necessary financing for the construction of facilities related to our water management operations. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or result in revenue or profit. There is no assurance that we will earn significant revenues to satisfy our current obligations. As a result, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to pay dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock in the future. The Series C Preferred Stock has historically been thinly traded, which may negatively affect investors’ ability to sell their shares. The Series C Preferred Stock has no stated maturity date. Since the Series C Preferred Stock has no stated maturity date, investors seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their shares of Series C Preferred Stock in the secondary market. While shares of our Series C Preferred Stock trade on the NYSE MKT, our Series C Preferred Stock is thinly traded, which may negatively affect investors’ ability to sell their shares. The low trading volume of our Series C Preferred Stock is outside of our control, and may not increase in the near future or, even if it does increase in the future, may not be maintained. The market value of our equity securities could be adversely affected by various factors. The trading price of our common stock and our Series C Preferred Stock may depend on many factors, including the following: • market liquidity; • particularly with respect to our Series C Preferred Stock, prevailing interest rates; • the market for similar securities • general economic conditions; and • our financial condition, performance and prospects. For example, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our equity securities, including our Series C Preferred Stock, to decrease. We could be prevented from paying dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock. Although dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock are cumulative and arrearages will accrue until paid, you will only receive cash dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock if we have funds legally available for the payment of dividends and such payment is not restricted or prohibited by law, the terms of any senior shares, or any documents governing our indebtedness. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock when payable. We have paid the dividends accrued on the currently issued and outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock. In addition, future debt, contractual covenants or arrangements we enter into may restrict or prevent future dividend payments. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will be able to pay any cash dividends on our Series C Preferred Stock. Furthermore, in some circumstances, we may pay dividends in stock rather than cash, and our stock price may be depressed at such time. 21 Table of Contents The Series C Preferred Stock has not been rated and will be subordinated to all of our existing and future debt. The Series C Preferred Stock has not been rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. In addition, with respect to dividend rights and rights upon our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, the Series C Preferred Stock will be subordinated to all of our existing and future debt, and all future capital stock designated as senior to the Series C Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2012, our total indebtedness was approximately $13.4 million. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future to finance potential acquisitions or other activities and the terms of the Series C Preferred Stock do not require us to obtain the approval of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock prior to incurring additional indebtedness. As a result, our existing and future indebtedness may be subject to restrictive covenants or other provisions that may prevent or otherwise limit our ability to make dividend or liquidation payments on our Series C Preferred Stock. Upon our liquidation, our obligations to our creditors would rank senior to our Series C Preferred Stock and would be required to be paid before any payments could be made to holders of our Series C Preferred Stock. Investors should not expect us to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock on the date the Series C Preferred Stock becomes redeemable or on any particular date afterwards . We may not redeem the Series C Preferred Stock prior to June 30, 2015, except pursuant to the special redemption upon a Change of Ownership or Control discussed below. On and after June 30, 2015, we may redeem the Series C Preferred Stock for cash at our option, from time to time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the redemption date. Following a “Change of Ownership or Control” of us by a person, entity or group, we (or the acquiring entity) will have the option to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock, in whole but not in part, within 120 days after the date on which the Change of Ownership or Control has occurred for cash, at $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared), up to the redemption date. However, if we (or the acquiring entity) have not notified the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock before such an event of our intent to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock have the right to convert their Series C Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock immediately before consummation of the Change of Ownership or Control transaction and to participate in such transaction along with the holders of our common stock. The Series C Preferred Stock is convertible at such time into an amount of common stock equal to the result of dividing the sum of the $25.00 per share liquidation preference plus the amount of any accrued but unpaid dividends up to but not including the date of the consummation of such transaction by the value of the consideration offered for each share of common stock; provided that such common stock consideration does not exceed 27.9329, which 27.9329 amount is subject to pro rata adjustments for any stock splits, subdivisions or combinations, which we refer to in our certificate of designations as the “Share Cap”. The Series C Preferred Stock does not have any stated maturity date and will not be subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption provisions except for redemption at our option upon a Change of Ownership or Control as described above or after June 30, 2015. Any decision we may make at any time to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock will depend upon, among other things, our evaluation of our capital position, including the composition of our stockholders’ equity and general market conditions at that time. Holders of Series C Preferred Stock have extremely limited voting rights. Except as expressly stated in the certificate of designations governing the Series C Preferred Stock, as a holder of Series C Preferred Stock, you will not have any relative, participating, optional or other special voting rights and powers and your approval will not be required for the taking of any corporate action other than as provided in the certificate of designations. For example, your approval would not be required for any merger or consolidation in which we are involved or sale of all or substantially all of our assets except to the extent that such transaction materially adversely changes the express powers, preferences, rights or privileges of the holders of Series C 22 Table of Contents Preferred Stock. None of the provisions relating to the Series C Preferred Stock contains any provisions affording the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock protection in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of our assets or business, that might adversely affect the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, so long as the terms and rights of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock are not materially and adversely changed. The issuance of future offerings of preferred stock may adversely affect the value of our Series C Preferred Stock. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, currently authorizes us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series on terms that may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors. We may issue additional shares of Series C Preferred Stock and/or other classes of preferred shares that would rank on parity with or senior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividend rights or rights upon liquidation, winding up or dissolution. The creation and subsequent issuance of additional classes of preferred shares on parity with or, with the consent of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, senior to our Series C Preferred Stock would dilute the interests of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and any issuance of preferred stock that is senior to the Series C Preferred Stock could affect our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on the Series C Preferred Stock. You may be required to use other sources of funds to pay income taxes in respect of dividends received, or deemed to be received, on the Series C Preferred Stock in certain circumstances . If we are required to pay dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock in shares of our common stock or additional shares of Series C Preferred Stock and such shares are not marketable at such time, you will be required to satisfy your income tax liability with respect to such dividends from other sources. Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock may be unable to use the dividends-received deduction and may not be eligible for the preferential tax rates applicable to “qualified dividend income.” Distributions paid to corporate U.S. holders of the Series C Preferred Stock may be eligible for the dividends-received deduction, and distributions paid to non-corporate U.S. holders of the Series C Preferred Stock may be subject to tax at the preferential tax rates applicable to “qualified dividend income,” if we have current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not currently have accumulated earnings and profits. Additionally, we may not have sufficient current earnings and profits during future fiscal years for the distributions on the Series C Preferred Stock to qualify as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the distributions fail to qualify as dividends, U.S. holders would be unable to use the dividends-received deduction and may not be eligible for the preferential tax rates applicable to “qualified dividend income.” If any distributions on the Series C Preferred Stock with respect to any fiscal year are not eligible for the dividends-received deduction or preferential tax rates applicable to “qualified dividend income” because of insufficient current or accumulated earnings and profits, it is possible that the market value of the Series C Preferred Stock might decline. Our Series C Preferred Stock is not generally convertible and purchasers may not realize a corresponding upside if the price of our common stock increases. Our Series C Preferred Stock is not generally convertible into our common stock and earns dividends at a fixed rate. Accordingly, the market value of our Series C Preferred Stock may depend on dividend and interest rates for other preferred stock, commercial paper and other investment alternatives and our actual and perceived ability to pay dividends on, and in the event of dissolution satisfy the liquidation preference with respect to, our Series C Preferred Stock. Moreover, our right to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock on or after June 30, 2015 or in the event of a Change of Ownership or Control could impose a ceiling on its value. Following a “Change of Ownership or Control” of us by a person, entity or group, we (or the acquiring entity) will have the option to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock, in whole but not in part, within 120 days after the date on which the Change of Ownership or Control has occurred for cash, at $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared), up to the redemption date. However, if we (or the acquiring entity) have not notified the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock before such an event of our intent to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock have the right to convert their Series C Preferred 23 Table of Contents Stock into shares of our common stock immediately before consummation of the Change of Ownership or Control transaction and to participate in such transaction along with the holders of our common stock. The Series C Preferred Stock is convertible at such time into an amount of common stock equal to the result of dividing the sum of the $25.00 per share liquidation preference plus the amount of any accrued but unpaid dividends up to but not including the date of the consummation of such transaction by the value of the consideration offered for each share of common stock; provided that such common stock consideration does not exceed 27.9329, which 27.9329 amount is subject to pro rata adjustments for any stock splits, subdivisions or combinations, which we refer to in our certificate of designations as the “Share Cap”. 