RISK FACTORS. Before you invest in our securities, you should be aware that there are various risks in making any such investment. You should consider carefully these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this report before you decide to purchase any of our securities. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and you could lose your entire investment in our company. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a history of losses, and we cannot guarantee that we will not incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We reported net income of approximately $1.9 million and net loss of approximately $4.1 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. For 2014, we had net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $7.2 million. Although we achieved positive gross profits from our operations for 2014, we cannot guarantee that we will become profitable in the future. Our ability to achieve profitability is based on numerous factors, many of which are out of our control, including but not limited to, cost of our raw materials, demand of our products, inability to maintain our bank facilities as result of deterioration of financial market environment, significant increase in interest expenses due to financial market turmoil, additional new costs or expenses occurred in our operation attribute to new government regulation. We will need additional financing to fund our operations and working capital and the potential expansion of the recycling facility. Additional capital raising efforts in future periods is likely to be dilutive to our then current stockholders or result in increased interest expense in future periods. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and working capital. Moreover, if we decide to expand the capacity of our recycling facility, we will also need additional capital to fund that expansion. Our future capital requirements depend on a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the scope of our expansion efforts and the amount of available metal ore, our ability to manage growth and expansion and our ability to control expenses. In the event we seek to raise additional capital through the issuance of debt or its equivalents, this will result in increased interest expense. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our company held by existing stockholders will be reduced and those stockholders may experience significant dilution. As we will generally not be required to obtain the consent of our stockholders if we elect to expand the recycling facility or to purchase more raw materials required in our operations, stockholders are dependent upon the sole discretion and judgment of our management in determining the number of, and characteristics of, stock issued to raise funds for these purposes and others. In addition, new securities may contain certain rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the working capital as needed in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any inability to raise capital as needed would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have issued $6,799,467 in short term convertible notes, the conversion terms of which are dilutive to our stockholders. From time to time we have issued short term convertible notes to several third party lenders to provide working capital for our operations. In 2013 we issued convertible notes in the principal amount of $566,500 and in 2014 we issued convertible notes in the additional principal amount of $6,232,967. These notes are generally convertible at a discount to the market price of our common stock. The amount of common stock and convertible notes that have been issued in the last two years has resulted in dilution to stockholders. For example, at December 31, 2014, we had outstanding 5,615,088 shares of common stock, of which 2,426,539 shares had been issued in 2013 and 2014 upon the conversion of these short-term notes. We expect that we will need to continue issuing short-term convertible notes to supplement our banking lines of credit and provide sufficient working capital for our operations until such time, if ever, that our operations become self-sustainable. 11 We operate in a business that is cyclical and where demand can be volatile, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate in a business that is cyclical and where demand can be volatile, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The timing and magnitude of the cycles in the business in which we operate are difficult to predict. Purchase prices for the raw materials we purchase (metal ore and scrap metal), and selling prices for our products (metal ore, scrap and recycled metal) are volatile and beyond our control. While we attempt to respond to changing raw material costs through adjustments to the sales price of our products, our ability to do so is limited by competitive and other market factors. Differences in economic conditions between the foreign markets, where we acquire our metal ore and a significant portion of our scrap metal, and the markets in China, where we sell our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant reduction in selling prices for our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and adversely impact our ability to recover purchase costs from end customers. A decline in market prices for our products between the date of the sales order and shipment of the product may impact the customer’s ability to obtain letters of credit to cover the full sales amount. A decline in selling prices for our products coupled with customers failing to meet their contractual obligations may also result in a net realizable value adjustment to the average cost of inventory to reflect the lower of cost or fair market value. Additionally, changing prices could potentially impact the volume of raw materials available to us, the volume of ore and processed metal sold by us and inventory levels. The cyclical nature of our businesses tends to reflect and be amplified by changes in general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. For example, the automobile and construction industries typically experience cutbacks in production, resulting in decreased demand for steel, copper and aluminum. This can lead to significant decreases in demand and pricing for our metal ore and recycled metal. Specifically, in 2013 an approximately $3.0 million of loss, including an inventory write-off of $2.3 million and a loss of $0.65 million in scrap metal sales, was resulted from the weakening demand and price for scrap metal and overcapacity in the market described elsewhere in this report. In addition, during 2014 we recognized an inventory reserve of reversal of $0.5 million as result of the price recovered from the write-off in the previous period. Our business depends on adequate supply and availability of metal ore and scrap metal. Our business requires metal ore and scrap metal that are sourced from third-party suppliers. We are affected by industry supply conditions, which generally involve risks beyond our control, including costs of these materials, transportation costs and market demand. As a result, we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of quality metal ore or scrap metal in a timely or cost-effective manner. If an adequate supply of scrap metal is not available to us, we would be unable to recycle metals at desired volumes, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on adequate supply and availability of electricity, which has recently been curtailed by the PRC authorities. We rely on electricity to operate equipment at the recycling facility. Our steel mill and other customers are also dependent on electricity to convert our recycled scrap metal into steel and other products. Accordingly, the successful operation of our business and the recycling facility requires a reliable supply of electricity. China’s electricity industry has historically experienced shortages and price volatility as a result of a variety of factors, including surging demand as a result of rapid growth in China and disruptions in the supply of coal used to produce electricity. In addition, the PRC authorities mandated a significant reduction of energy usage and instituted “rolling brownouts” during the third and fourth quarters of 2010 in an effort to meet targets for energy consumption and emissions set by the 11th Five of Year Plan (2006-2010). This policy adversely impacted our revenues in the end of third quarter and the entire fourth quarter of 2010 by reducing our ability to operate the recycling facility. The energy restrictions also negatively affected steel companies’ production thereby reducing the demand and prices for the metal ore we distributed and the processed scrap metal produced at the recycling facility. As a result, we experienced a decrease in revenues, which adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations for the third and fourth quarters of 2010. While the “rolling brownouts” restrictions has been eliminated with the implementation of China’s 12th Five Year Plan (2011-2015) on January 1, 2011, there can be no assurances that additional energy use restrictions will not be imposed in the future. Any continuation of these restrictions will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also unable to predict whether other energy or environmental policies will be adopted by the PRC government that could adversely impact our operations in future periods. 12 Unexpected equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. If we suffer interruptions in our production capabilities, such interruptions will adversely affect our production costs, steel available for sales and revenues for the affected period, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to equipment failures, the recycling facility is also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as acts of god (including earthquakes and floods), fires, explosions, terrorism, public health pandemics and labor disputes. Our recycling processes are highly dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as shredders and cutting machines, as well as electrical equipment. This equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. We may in the future experience material shutdowns of the recycling facility or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures. Our shredding machine is highly complex and requires experienced and knowledgeable personnel to efficiently operate and maintain. Because we are in the early stages of operating this machine, we have experienced delays and inefficiencies due to our lack of operational experience with the machine. The recycling facility is not currently operating at full production capability. We have not operated our recycling facility at full capacity since it began operations in 2010. In March 2015 we are currently operating at approximately 30% production capacity. Our ability to achieve full production capacity is dependent upon, among other items, our ability to attract sufficient customers to purchase the scrap metal that we recycle and our ability to obtain raw materials at favorable prices to support our production. There can be no assurance that we will achieve full production capability at the recycling facility in the future. During uncertain economic conditions, customers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. We enter into sales contracts preceded by negotiations that include fixing price, quantities, shipping terms and other contractual elements. Upon finalization of these terms and satisfactory completion of other contractual contingencies by us, our customers typically open a letter of credit to satisfy their obligation under the contract prior to shipment by us. In many instances, and particularly during uncertain economic conditions, we are at risk on consummating the transaction until our customers successfully obtain the letter of credit. As a result, the customer may not be able to fulfill its obligation under the contract in times of illiquid market conditions. Moreover, as described elsewhere in this report, suppliers and customers in China often breach contracts and there may be inadequate recourse for us to enforce such agreements. Although our platform model will significantly decrease this kind of risks and we aim to develop and implement platform model, most of our business are currently operating under usual practice model described here which also cannot be replaced completely by platform model in the future. Therefore, this risk is still and expects to continually exist in our business. If our customers do not comply with their existing commercial contracts and commitments, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most consumers of the metals products we sell have been adversely impacted by the global recession and related economic downturn. Many of our customers have experienced reductions in their operations. Prices for many of the metals products we sell have declined, in some instances substantially. These factors have contributed to attempts by some of our customers to seek renegotiation or cancellation of their existing purchase commitments. In addition, some of our customers have breached previously agreed upon contracts to buy our products by refusing delivery of the products. Where appropriate, we will in the future pursue litigation to recover our damages resulting from customer contract defaults, although the success of any such litigation and our ultimate ability to recover for contractual breaches is uncertain. If a large number of our customers were to default on their existing contractual obligations to purchase our products, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key management personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our future performance depends substantially on the services of our senior management and other key personnel, as well as our ability to retain and motivate them. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, including Mr. Kexuan Yao, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we are a party to an employment agreement with Kexuan Yao, our Chairmen of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer, which expires on 12/31/2015, if we were to lose his services our ability to conduct our business and operations as they are presently conducted would be in jeopardy. Although pursuant to such employment agreement we are the beneficiary of a $2 million of key man life insurance policy on Mr. Yao's life, we cannot guarantee that these measures will sufficiently remedy the loss of the services of his services if that occurs. Our business also depends on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. 13 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2014, our management has determined that our internal controls and procedures are not effective due to insufficiently qualified accounting and other finance personnel with an appropriate level of U.S. GAAP knowledge and experience. Management believes that our lack of experience with U.S. GAAP constitutes a material weakness in our internal control. This material weakness has existed since December 31, 2009. As a result of management’s assessment of our internal controls, we are considering the costs and benefits associated with remediating our control deficiencies. We plan to devote significant resources to remediate, improve and document our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls and procedures, including our engagement of a CPA consultant who has U.S. GAAP knowledge to assist in the preparation of our U.S. GAAP financial statements. We have taken below procedures in implementing our remediation plan in 2013: ● hired a U.S. CPA firm assist our financial reporting and SEC filing including consolidation preparation, and ● engaged a professional services firm that has expertise in accounting and U.S. GAAP matters with publicly-traded companies. We continue to consider the following remediation options, or some combination thereof: ● hiring additional personnel with sufficient U.S. GAAP experience, and ● implementing ongoing training in U.S. GAAP requirements for our CFO and accounting and other finance personnel. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience weakness and potential problems in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the “Sarbanes-Oxley” Act of 2002. This weakness also includes a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such requirements are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our common stock, if a market ever develops, could drop significantly. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have implemented these policies through our Code of Conduct. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in China. While we make every effort to comply with FCPA and our company Code of Conduct, we can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Risks Associated With Doing Business in China A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in China and are subject to changes resulting from the political and economic policies of China government. Our business operations could be restricted by the political environment in China. China has operated as a socialist state since 1949 and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. In recent years, however, the government has introduced reforms aimed at creating a "socialist market economy" and policies have been implemented to allow business enterprises greater autonomy in their operations. Changes in the political leadership of China may have a significant effect on laws and policies related to the current economic reform programs, the other policies affecting business and the general political, economic and social environment in China, including the introduction of measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad, and foreign investment. China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past decade, although growth has recently been slowing. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in China have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation or increases of such disparities could affect the political or social stability of China. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffective, there are no assurances that: ● the Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; ● economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; ● policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; or ● operations in China will not become subject to the risk of nationalization. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, the future direction of these economic reforms is uncertain and the uncertainty may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to capitalize on these economic reforms, assuming the reforms continue. Because our business model is dependent upon the continued economic reform and growth in China, any change in Chinese government policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if the Chinese government continues its policies of economic reform, there are no assurances that economic growth in China will continue or that we will be able to take advantage of these opportunities in a fashion that will provide financial benefit to us. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which our Chinese subsidiaries must conduct their business activities. China has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The government of China has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions of China, and could require us to operate our business differently, including by requiring us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in our Chinese subsidiaries. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi (RMB) may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the RMB, the main currency in China, against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. Under the current PRC policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This policy has resulted in the appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Because a significant portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in RMB, any potential future revaluation could further increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on currency exchange limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. We may not have ready access to cash on deposit in banks in China. Because a substantial portion of our revenues are in the form of RMB, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to government approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that we could have ready access to the cash should we wish to transfer it to bank accounts outside China nor can we be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. As a result, we may suffer delays in our ability to meet our obligations outside China and may be required to seek additional amounts of borrowings to fund our operations outside China. 15 We may be unable to enforce our rights due to policies regarding the regulation of foreign investments in China. China's legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedent, unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. China does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion and variation, and may be subject to influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. China's regulations and policies with respect to foreign investments are evolving. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been published. Statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broad interpretation and discretion and to be modified, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. The uncertainties regarding such regulations and policies present risks which may affect our current operations and future plans in China and elsewhere. If we are unable to enforce any legal rights we may have under our contracts or otherwise, our ability to compete with other companies in the steel industry and the other industries in which we compete could be severely limited. As a consequence, we would experience a loss of revenue in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain agreements to which we are a party and which are material to our operations lack various legal protections which are customarily contained in similar contracts prepared in the United States. Our subsidiaries include companies organized under the PRC laws and which conduct all of their business and operations in the PRC and Hong Kong. We are a party to certain contracts related to our operations in the PRC and Hong Kong. While these contracts contain the basic business terms of the agreements between the parties, these contracts do not contain certain clauses which are customarily contained in similar contracts among parties in the United States. These clauses include representations and warranties of the parties, confidentiality and non-compete clauses, provisions outlining events of defaults and termination provisions. In addition, remedies and dispute resolution mechanisms in our contracts are typically vague, rendering enforcement of these contracts difficult. Because our contracts in China omit these customary clauses, notwithstanding the differences in the PRC and U.S. laws, we may not have the same legal protections as we would if the contracts contained these additional clauses. We anticipate that our PRC and Hong Kong subsidiaries will likely enter into contracts in the future which will likewise omit these customary legal protections. While we have not been subject to any material adverse consequences as a result of the omission of these customary clauses, and we generally consider the contracts to which we are a party to contain all the material terms of our business arrangements with the other party, future events may occur which lead to a dispute which could have been avoided if the contracts included customary clauses in conformity with U.S. standards. Contractual disputes which may arise from this lack of legal protection could divert management's time from the operation of our business, require us to expend funds attempting to settle a possible dispute, limit the time our management would otherwise devote to the operation of our business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because there is limited business and litigation insurance coverage available in China, any business disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and diverting significant resources to handle such disruption or litigation. While business disruption insurance may be available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption and the difficulties and costs associated with acquiring such insurance render it commercially impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability or business disruption coverage for our operations in China. Accordingly, any business disruption or litigation might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. 16 We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China. Our personnel employed in China are generally unfamiliar with western styles of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which include sufficient corporate governance, internal controls and computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we have experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China, as we compete for global talent with larger and better funded enterprises. Although we have taken some measures, such as engaged in professionals legal, financial, accounting consultants who are familiar with practices in China, we did not hire additional full time in-house professionals in this regard due to cost-effective consideration. As a result of these factors, we may continue to experience difficulties in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards and applicable law in connection with our operations and our potential future acquisitions, if any. Therefore, we are likely to experience continuing difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock The conversion of outstanding convertible notes will be highly dilutive to our stockholders and likely result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We presently have outstanding $78,500 principal amount of convertible promissory notes with conversion prices based upon fluctuating market prices which are due in July 2015 are convertible until end of April 2015. Because the conversion prices of these notes is based upon a disclosure to the volume weighted average price of the common stock, subject to certain limitation on ownership by the holders, the ultimate number of shares of our common stock which may be issued upon the conversion of these notes is presently unknown. However, based upon an assumed conversion price of $0.8 per share, at March 22, 2015 we would issue an aggregate of 98,125 shares of our common stock upon the full conversion of these notes. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon the conversion of these notes will be dilutive to our existing stockholders and will likely adversely impact the market value of our common stock. The recent reverse stock split of our common stock may not have the long-term desired effect on the market price of our common stock. On January 9, 2015 we effected a 1:10 reverse stock split of our common stock. Our board recommended the reverse stock split to our stockholders because it believed that the low price of our common stock negatively impacted our credibility as a viable business enterprise and impaired the acceptability of our common stock to potential acquisition candidates and certain members of the investing public, including institutional investors. In the days leading up to the effective date of the reverse stock split, the market price of our common stock ranged from $0.16 per share to $0.21 per share. However, in the week leading up to the filing of this report, more than two months after the effective date of the reverse stock split, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $1.18 to $1.27 per share. While the number of outstanding shares and the market price of our common stock were proportionally adjusted at the time of the reverse stock split based upon the split ratio, the market price of our common stock is also based on factors which may be unrelated to the number of shares outstanding. These factors include our performance, general economic and market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Many companies which undertake a reverse stock split find that the market price per share on a post-split basis may not rise or remain constant in proportion to the reduction in the number of shares outstanding before the reverse stock split. Accordingly, the total market capitalization of common stock after the reverse stock split may be lower than the total market capitalization before the reverse stock split. There are no assurance the reverse stock split will have the long-term positive effective on the market for our common stock that was the board's goal. Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition to market and industry factors and the conversion features of the outstanding convertible notes, the price and trading volume for our common stock may be highly volatile for factors that are specific to our company. These factors include but are not limited to our low public float, our recent reverse stock split, our recent financial performance and the heightened regulatory scrutiny that certain companies with significant operations in China are experiencing in the United States. These and other factors could cause the market price for our shares to change substantially. Furthermore, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when our stockholders wish to sell our common stock. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management's attention and resources. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a takeover which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects, which include when and by whom special meetings of our stockholders may be called, and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt. In addition, certain provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes also may be deemed to have certain anti-takeover effects which include that control of shares acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds will not possess any voting rights unless these voting rights are approved by a majority of a corporation's disinterested stockholders. Further, our articles of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors in their sole discretion. Our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, issue series of preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. 17 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 