Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks associated with our business We have a limited operating history and our business may not be as successful as we envision. We are a newly formed corporation with minimal operating history upon which to base the evaluation of our company’s assets. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to develop our existing leased wind assets and to acquire, develop and operate renewable energy businesses. GreenHunter will be subject to the risks involved with any speculative new venture. We have minimal present revenue and will not generate any significant revenue until, at the earliest, after the successful development of our existing wind assets or successful development of the biodiesel refinery. Due to many undeterminable market conditions, there can be no assurance that GreenHunter will be able to operate profitably in the future. Our lack of diversification may increase our risk. We expect our prime source of revenue will come from renewable energy assets that generate cash flow from the sale of biodiesel, methanol, wind, and biomass-created energy. Any diminution in the value of our assets or decrease in operating revenues could negatively affect our ability to become profitable. Further, the illiquid nature of the assets we intend to purchase could jeopardize our ability to satisfy our working capital needs or impair our ability to meet any debt obligations that may become due. We may not be able to effectively manage our acquisition and construction costs. We may suffer from increasing costs in retrofitting current acquisitions. While we have closed on the acquisition of the biodiesel refinery and biomass plant in El Centro, California, substantial costs will be incurred in retrofitting the former petroleum recycling facility into a biodiesel refinery and refitting the biomass plant. While we have attempted to project such costs, changes in engineering scope, increases in construction, labor, or capital expenses could impair our ability to successfully achieve our investment objectives. We have debt that could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have now and will continue to have a certain amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness of approximately $16.9 million. We will incur additional indebtedness as we draw on our credit line with WestLB and continue to issue our 10% redeemable debentures. Because we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on our debt, that portion of our cash flow is not available for other purposes. Also, our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired by our leverage. Our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; force us to sell assets or seek additional capital to service our indebtedness which we may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We are dependent upon our key personnel. Our operations and financial success will significantly depend on the continued success of our managerial personnel. Our managerial personnel will have the right to make all decisions with respect to management and operation of our business and affairs. We are dependent on the executive officers and key personnel of 17 Table of Contents GreenHunter Energy and their ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our profitability could be adversely affected in the event members of our management team become unable or unwilling to continue to direct our operations. At this time, we have not entered into any employment agreements with any of our management personnel. Further, our officers’ and directors’ allocation of their time to other business interests could at times have a negative impact on our ability to acquire, develop and manage our renewable assets and to consummate any business combinations. All of our officers and directors are required to commit their full work hour time to our business affairs, with the exception of Mr. Evans. We may not be able to meet our capital requirements. We will need to make substantial capital expenditures in connection with the refurbishment and construction of our biodiesel refinery in Houston, Texas and the refurbishment of our biomass plant in California. We currently intend to finance these projects utilizing our credit facility with WestLB and the marketing of a convertible bond offering to accredited investors. In the event we are not able to draw the entire $150 million credit facility or continue to successfully market our convertible bonds, we will not be able to meet our capital needs and complete our pending projects. Therefore, we will not have any immediate sources of cash or revenue. There can be no assurance that any additional debt or equity financing will be available to allow us to fund our capital requirements. Risks Related to the Biodiesel Industry The biodiesel industry is highly dependent on a mix of legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The competitiveness of biodiesel currently depends to a large extent on tax incentives and renewable fuel standards. We intend on blending our biodiesel at our facilities in Houston, Texas. As a result, we would be eligible to participate in the U.S. federal excise tax incentive program for biodiesel. We cannot assure you that the biodiesel fuels credit or any other government incentive programs will be renewed on similar terms, if at all. Any failure to renew such incentive programs at all or on similar terms could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the tax credit and other federal and state programs that benefit biodiesel generally are subject to U.S. and other government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures that might in the future be the subject of challenges. In recent years, the U.S. federal government has sought to stimulate the production and use of biodiesel fuel. The primary incentive is the biodiesel fuels credit, which was enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Public Law No. 108-357). As codified under Section 40A of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 40A), the biodiesel fuels credit is equal to the ''biodiesel mixture credit’’ plus the ''biodiesel credit.’’ The biodiesel mixture credit is U.S.$0.50 per gallon of biodiesel used by the taxpayer in the production of a qualified biodiesel mixture (i.e., ''second use’’ biodiesel made from recycled cooking oil or grease that is blended with diesel fuel). The biodiesel credit is U.S.$0.50 per gallon of biodiesel that is not in a mixture with diesel fuel and that is either used by the taxpayer as fuel in a trade or business or is sold by the taxpayer at retail as vehicular fuel. Additionally, in the case of agri-biodiesel (i.e., ''first use’’ biodiesel produced from ''virgin oils’’ such as soybean oil or derived from animal fats), each credit is worth U.S. $1.00 per gallon rather than U.S. $0.50 per gallon. Finally, there is an additional U.S.$0.10 per gallon tax credit for small agri-biodiesel producers. The biodiesel fuels credit is only available for biodiesel that meets both the registration requirements for fuels and fuel additives established by the Environmental Protection Agency under section 211 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545) and the ASTM D6751 standard. Although these tax incentives are scheduled to expire at the end of 2008, U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation that would extend the biodiesel fuels credit for an additional two years. As favorably reported by the Senate Finance Committee, the proposed Energy Advancement and Investment Act of 2007 18 Table of Contents would extend the credit through December 31, 2010. In addition, the proposed legislation would extend the small agri-biodiesel producer credit through December 31, 2012 on the first 15 million gallons of biodiesel production for producers with an annual capacity of 60 million gallons or less. As favorably reported by the House Ways and Means Committee, the proposed Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Act of 2007 would extend the biodiesel fuels credit through December 31, 2010. In their current form, certain bills would amend current law to eliminate the availability of the credit on biodiesel fuel exports by making the credit available only with respect to biodiesel fuel produced and consumed in the United States The elimination or significant reduction in the biodiesel tax credits described above or other programs could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the United States, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law No. 109-58), for example, mandates a minimum amount of renewable fuel (biodiesel, ethanol, and other renewable fuels) to be used by petroleum refiners in the fuel supply market, increasing from 4.0 billion gallons in 2006 to 7.5 billion gallons by 2012. In addition, the statute established the Alternative Fuel Refueling Infrastructure Tax Credit, which provides an income tax credit for costs associated with installing alternative fuel pumps. The credit equals 30% of the cost for retailers (up to $30,000), as well as $1,000 for residential buyers. Qualifying pumps include, among others, those dispensing any mixture of biodiesel and diesel fuel containing at least 20% biodiesel. Recent legislative proposals continue to support the use of alternative fuels. Under the proposed Renewable Fuels, Consumer Protection, and Energy Efficiency Act of 2007 recently adopted by the U.S. Senate, for example, U.S. Congress would establish a renewable fuels standard intended to encourage the use of 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels annually by 2022. While these renewable fuel standards should stimulate demand for renewable fuels generally, we cannot assure you that there will be specific demand for biodiesel. Any waiver of, or failure to adopt, the renewable fuel standards could adversely impact the demand for biodiesel and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to various regulatory schemes and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. All phases of designing, constructing and operating biodiesel production facilities present environmental risks and hazards. We are subject to environmental regulation implemented or imposed by a variety of federal, provincial, state and municipal laws and regulations as well as international conventions. Among other things, environmental legislation provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills and discharges, as well as emissions of various substances produced in association with biodiesel fuel operations. Legislation also requires that facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed in such a way that would satisfy applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines, penalties and liability, as well as potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The discharge of pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties, and may require us to incur costs to remedy such discharge. Furthermore, our planned operation in Houston, Texas will require, licenses, permits and in some cases renewals of these licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. Our ability to obtain, amend, comply with, sustain, or renew such licenses and permits on acceptable, commercially viable terms are subject to change, as, among other things, the regulations and policies of applicable governmental authorities may change. Our inability to obtain, amend to conform to our operations, or extend a license or a loss of any of these licenses or permits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, require us to forfeit property rights and may affect the value of our assets or our ability to conduct our business. We may also be required to take corrective actions, including, but not limited to, installing additional equipment, which could require us to make substantial capital expenditures. We could also be required to indemnify our employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against them. These could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our results of operations, financial condition and business outlook are highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and the availability of supplies, so our results could fluctuate substantially. Our financial results are substantially dependent on many different commodity prices, especially prices for feedstock, biodiesel, petroleum diesel and materials used in the construction of our production facilities. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these items, our financial results may fluctuate substantially and we may experience periods of declining prices for our products and increasing costs for our raw materials, which could result in operating losses. Although we may attempt to offset a portion of the effects of fluctuations in prices by entering into forward contracts to supply biodiesel or purchase feedstock or other items or by engaging in transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts, the ability to hedge against certain feedstock price fluctuations is limited, the amount and duration of these hedging and other risk mitigation activities may vary substantially over time and these activities also involve substantial costs and risks and may not be effective to mitigate these fluctuations. We depend on third parties for all of our feedstock supply. If such third parties are not able to complete their feedstock supply services or default on their agreement to provide us with feedstock or procure feedstock for us, we would be materially adversely affected. Irrespective of whether third parties perform under feedstock contractual arrangements with us, we may be forced to buy feedstock at uneconomic rates, or we may not have access to feedstock at all. Additionally, we may have difficulty selling our biodiesel if third parties with whom we contract under our off-taking agreements do not perform. These conditions may cause our operating results to suffer. As feedstocks comprise the primary input in producing biodiesel, changes in the price of feedstocks can significantly affect our business. The price of feedstock is influenced by market demand, weather conditions, animal processing and rendering plant decisions, factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of feedstock is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of feedstock, such as increased demand, adverse weather or crop disease, could increase feedstock prices and potentially harm our business. In addition, we may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing feedstock on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require us to suspend operations until feedstock is available at economical terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. The price we pay for feedstock at a facility could increase if an additional multi-feedstock biodiesel production facility is built in the same general vicinity or if alternative uses are found for lower cost feedstocks. Historically, the price of biodiesel has correlated closely to the price of petroleum diesel which is directly correlated to the price of crude oil. The price of petroleum diesel fluctuates substantially and is difficult to forecast due to factors such as political unrest, worldwide economic conditions, supply and demand, seasonal weather conditions, changes in refining capacity, fluctuations in exchange rates and natural disasters. Price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, the return on our investment in biodiesel production facilities and on our general financial condition. Price fluctuations for biodiesel fuel may also impact the investment market, and our ability to raise investor capital. Although market prices for biodiesel fuel rose to 20 Table of Contents record levels during 2007 because of crude oil prices, there is no assurance that these prices will remain at high levels. Future decreases in the prices of biodiesel or petroleum diesel fuel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Biodiesel is marketed both as a pure and blended substitute for diesel, and as a result a decrease in petroleum diesel prices may reduce the price at which we can sell our biodiesel and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition due to advances in alternative fuels may lessen the demand for biodiesel and negatively impact our profitability. Alternative fuels, gasoline oxygenates, ethanol and biodiesel production methods are continually under development. A number of automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers are developing alternative clean power systems using fuel cells or clean-burning gaseous fuels that, like biodiesel, may address increasing worldwide energy costs, the long-term availability of petroleum reserves and environmental concerns. Additionally, there is significant research and development being undertaken regarding the production of ethanol from cellulosic biomass, the production of methane from anaerobic digestors, and the production of electricity from wind and tidal energy systems, among other potential sources of renewable energy. If these alternative fuels continue to expand and gain broad acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively. This additional competition could reduce the demand for biodiesel, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse public opinions concerning the biodiesel industry in general could harm our business. The biodiesel industry is new, and general public acceptance of biodiesel is uncertain, especially in the United States. Public acceptance of biodiesel as a reliable, high-quality alternative to petroleum diesel may be limited or slower than anticipated due to several factors, including: • public perception that biodiesel is produced from waste vegetable oil or other lower-quality feedstocks, thereby resulting in lower quality fuel; • public perception that the use of biodiesel will require excessive engine modifications, or that engines running biodiesel will not reliably start in cold conditions; • actual or perceived problems with biodiesel quality or performance; and • concern that using biodiesel will void engine warranties. Such public perceptions or concerns, whether substantiated or not, may adversely affect the demand for our biodiesel, which in turn could decrease our sales, harm our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Risks Related To the Renewable Energy Industry Future Investments Limited Only to the Renewable Energy Industry. Since we are not limited to any particular target business in the renewable energy industry with which to complete an acquisition or business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of any future business we may operate. We may consummate a business combination in the future with a company in any business we choose in the renewable energy industry (e.g., wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and biofuels) and are not limited to any particular type of business. While current acquisitions are detailed in the “Description of Business” section, there is minimal current information for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any other target businesses which we may acquire in the future. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company, a company with unknown or non-quantifiable risks or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of such entity. Further acquisitions or business combinations with an entity in the renewable energy industry would be 21 Table of Contents characterized by a high level of risk, and we may be adversely affected by currently unascertainable risks of that business. Although our management team will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Competition may impair our success. The renewable energy marketplace is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and we may be unable to successfully compete. We compete in the market for renewable energy products and services which is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and rapid product obsolescence also impact the market. Our competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Our current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies, products or services with features that render BioFuels’ and GreenHunter’s technologies, products or services obsolete or less marketable. Our success will be dependent upon our ability to develop products that are superior to existing products and products introduced in the future, and which are cost effective. In addition, we may be required to continually enhance any products that are developed as well as introduce new products that keep pace with technological change and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of the marketplace. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully develop products that will succeed in the marketplace. Regulation and Legislation on Renewable Energy. The favorable regulatory climate for the renewable energy industry may not continue. The profitability of our renewable energy projects will be in part dependent upon the continuation of a favorable regulatory climate with respect to the continuing operations and the future growth and development of the renewable energy industry. Government regulations, subsidies, incentives and the market design currently have a favorable impact on the building of renewable energy facilities. If the current government regulations, subsidy and incentive programs or the design of the market are modified, GreenHunter’s projects may be adversely affected, which may have a material adverse effect on GreenHunter. Volatility in Pricing for Renewable Energy. The market price of renewable energy fuels is volatile and subject to significant fluctuations, which may cause our profitability to fluctuate significantly. The market price of renewable energy fuels is dependent on many factors, including the price of gasoline, which is in-turn dependent on the price of crude oil. Petroleum prices are highly volatile and difficult to forecast due to frequent changes in global politics and the world economy. The distribution of petroleum throughout the world is affected by incidents in unstable political environments, such as Iraq, Iran, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia, countries comprising the former U.S.S.R., Venezuela, and other countries and regions. The industrialized world depends critically on oil from these areas, and any disruption or other reduction in oil supply can cause significant fluctuations in the prices of oil and gasoline. We cannot predict the future price of oil or gasoline. Unprofitable prices for the sale of renewable energy fuels may result from the significant fluctuations in market prices. In recent years, the price of crude oil, gasoline and renewable energy fuels have all reached historically unprecedented high levels. If the prices of gasoline and petroleum decline, we believe that the demand for and price of renewable energy fuels may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in the market price of renewable energy fuels may cause our profitability to fluctuate significantly. We believe that the production of renewable energy fuels is expanding rapidly, especially in the United States. There are a number of new plants under construction and planned for construction. We expect existing renewable energy fuel plants to expand by increasing production capacity and actual production. Increases in the demand for renewable energy fuels may not be commensurate with increasing supplies of renewable energy fuels. Thus, increased production of renewable energy fuels may lead to lower renewable energy fuel prices. The increased production of renewable energy fuels could also have other adverse effects. For example, increased 22 Table of Contents renewable energy fuels production could lead to increased supplies of co-products from the production of renewable energy fuels. Those increased supplies could lead to lower prices for those co-products. Also, the increased production of renewable energy fuels could result in increased demand for renewable energy fuel supplies. This could result in higher prices for such supplies and cause higher renewable energy fuels production costs and will result in lower profits. We cannot predict the future price of renewable energy fuels. Any material decline in the price of renewable energy fuels will adversely affect our sales and profitability. Dependence on Wind Resource(s). A portion of our business is dependent on the availability of wind resource(s). The strength and consistency of the wind resource at any of our wind projects will vary. Weather patterns could change or the historical data could prove to be an inaccurate reflection of the strength and consistency of the wind in the future. If there is insufficient wind resource, the assumptions underlying the economic feasibility as to the amount of electricity to be generated by any of our wind projects will not be met and income and cash flows will be adversely impacted. Our future evaluation of our wind projects will be based on assumptions about certain conditions that may exist and events that may occur in the future. A number of additional factors may cause the wind resource and energy capture at any of our wind projects to differ, possibly materially, from those initially assumed by management, including: the limited time period over which the site-specific wind data were collected; the potential lack of close correlation between site-specific wind data and the longer-term regional wind data; inaccurate assumptions related to wake losses and wind shear; the limitations in the accuracy with which anemometers measure wind speed; the inherent variability of wind speeds; the lack of independent verification of the turbine power curve provided by the manufacturer; the potential impact of climatic factors, including icing and soiling of wind turbines; the potential impact of topographical variations, turbine placement and local conditions, including vegetation; the power delivery schedule being subject to uncertainty; the inherent uncertainty associated with the use of models, in particular future-oriented models; and the potential for electricity losses to occur before delivery. Further, the wind resources may be insufficient for Wind Energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of GreenHunter, to become and remain profitable. Wind is naturally variable. The level of electricity production at any of our wind projects, therefore, will also be variable. If there is insufficient wind resource at a project site due to variability, the assumptions underlying management’s belief as to the amount of electricity to be generated by any of our wind projects will not be met. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the wind resource will be sufficient for Wind Energy to become or remain profitable. Construction and Development Delays. Construction and development delays may adversely affect our business. Absent a successful business combination, the ability of BioFuels, Wind Energy and GreenHunter to generate revenues will depend upon the successful completion of the development, construction and operations of our existing wind assets, biodiesel refinery, and biomass plant. Capital equipment needs to be manufactured, shipped to our project sites, installed and tested. In addition, on-site roads, substations, interconnection facilities and other infrastructure all need to be either built or purchased and installed. There is a risk that the construction phase may not be completed, that either may be substantially delayed, or that material cost over-runs may be incurred, which may result in BioFuels, Wind Energy and GreenHunter being unable to make positive income. Volatility in the Market Price of Electricity. Our potential revenues, income and cash flow are subject to volatility in the market price for electricity. GreenHunter’s ability to generate revenue has exposure to movements in the market price of electricity, as sales to the power market are likely to be made at prevailing market prices. The market price of electricity is sensitive to cyclical changes in demand and capacity supply, and in the economy, as well as to regulatory trends and developments impacting electricity market rules and pricing, transmission development and investment within the U.S. and to the power markets in other jurisdictions via interconnects and other external factors outside of the 23 Table of Contents control of GreenHunter. Energy from wind generating facilities must be taken “as delivered” which necessitates the use of other system resources to keep the demand and supply of electric energy in balance. Accordingly, the potential revenue, income and cash flow may be volatile and adversely affect the value of GreenHunter. Licenses and Permits. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses and permits. BioFuels, Wind Energy and GreenHunter may not necessarily hold all of the licenses and permits required in connection with the construction and operation of most of our wind projects, biodiesel refinery, and biomass plant. The failure to obtain all necessary licenses or permits, including renewals thereof or modifications thereto, could result in construction delays of any of our wind projects or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on BioFuels, Wind Energy and GreenHunter. Interconnection Agreements. We may be unable to enter into a necessary interconnection agreement. BioFuels, GreenHunter Wind Energy and GreenHunter will be required to enter into certain interconnection agreements with electric utilities prior to selling electricity. The failure to enter into such interconnection agreements on terms that are acceptable to BioFuels, Wind Energy and GreenHunter could have a material adverse effect on BioFuels, Wind Energy and GreenHunter. Strict Liability for Toxic and Hazardous Materials; No Environmental Indemnity. Federal, state and local laws impose liability on a landowner for releases or the otherwise improper presence on the premises of hazardous substances. This liability is without regard to fault for, or knowledge of, the presence of such substances. A landowner may be held liable for hazardous materials brought onto the property before it acquired title and for hazardous materials that are not discovered until after it sells the property. Similar liability may occur under applicable state law. If any hazardous materials are found within the operations of BioFuels, Wind Energy and GreenHunter and are in violation of the law at any time, BioFuels, Wind Energy and GreenHunter may be jointly and severally liable for all cleanup costs, fines, penalties and other costs. This potential liability will continue after BioFuels, Wind Energy and GreenHunter sell any subject properties and may apply to hazardous materials present within the properties before BioFuels, Wind Energy and GreenHunter acquired the properties. If significant losses arise from hazardous substance contamination, the financial viability of BioFuels, GreenHunter Wind Energy and GreenHunter may be substantially and adversely affected. Management is not aware that any of our properties currently contain any toxic or hazardous materials. Risks Relating to the Ownership of our Securities We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination or acquire assets, which would dilute the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 90,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $.001 per share, and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.001 per share. As of March 14, 2008, there are 70,240,827 authorized but unissued shares of our Common Stock available for issuance and 9,987,500 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. As of March 14, 2008, the number of shares of our common stock subject to outstanding options, warrants and the Company’s Series A convertible preferred stock was 13,148,024 (including 378,074 warrants to purchase common stock to be issued to our debenture holders on March 31, 2008). Although we have no commitments as of March 14, 2008 to issue any additional securities, we will, in all likelihood, issue a substantial number of additional shares of our Common Stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to the shareholders of a potential target or in connection with a related simultaneous financing to complete a business combination or asset purchase. The issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock may: 24 Table of Contents • significantly dilute the equity interest of shareholders in our Company; • subordinate the rights of holders of Common Stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to holders of our Common Stock; • cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of Common Stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and possibly result in the resignation or removal of some or all of our present officers and directors; and • adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Common Stock. Similarly, our issuance of debt securities could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination or asset purchase were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness, even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, or change of control provisions, and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful afterwards will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, and others who will be hired to manage the acquired business and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. However, we cannot presently ascertain the future role of our key personnel in the target business. Although our current management expects to remain associated with us in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources familiarizing them with such requirements. This process could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers and directors’ allocation of their time to other business interests could have a negative impact on our ability to develop our renewable assets and consummate a business combination. All of our officers are required to commit their full work hour time to our business affairs, with the exception of Mr. Evans. Due to existing board of director positions and other business interests that Mr. Evans maintains with other companies, Mr. Evans cannot commit 100% of his work hours to GreenHunter. However, all material corporate, strategic and financial decisions will be reviewed and ultimately decided by Mr. Evans. Our officers and directors may become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to our own and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented to. Our officers and directors may become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to our own. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they have fiduciary obligations. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 25 Table of Contents Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities with business objectives similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation may give others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to successfully complete an acquisition of a target business, our business plan will be thwarted and investors may lose their entire investment. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination, asset purchase or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination or asset purchase. We cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of any specific capital raise prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or asset purchase, we may be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination or asset purchase, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination or asset purchase and seek an alternative target. In addition, if we consummate a business combination or asset purchase, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. We depend on key management personnel, and the loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect and make it more difficult to find a suitable company for a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be largely dependent upon the efforts of our management team. We have not entered into any employment agreements with any of our management team at this time, nor have we obtained any “key man” life insurance on any of their lives. The loss of any of their services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully achieve our business objectives, including seeking a suitable target business to effect a business combination. In the event we cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or we acquire a business that is unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if its internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. As a recently reporting public company, we will be subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the end of 2008. In addition, it will also require and evaluation of any target business acquired by us. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal controls, including an evaluation of any target businesses acquired by a company. In the event the internal controls over financial reporting of a target business cannot satisfy the regulatory requirements relating to internal controls or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, we may not be able to complete a business combination with the target business without substantial cost or significant risks to our company or our management may be unable to certify as to the effectiveness of the internal controls and our auditor may be unable to publicly attest to this certification following the completion of 26 Table of Contents a business combination. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of internal controls over financial reporting and our independent auditors’ attestation of that assessment may require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources or may prevent a business combination with certain target businesses. If we fail to timely complete our evaluation, if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of the internal controls of our company or the acquired business or if our auditors cannot attest to management’s certification, we could be subject to regulator scrutiny and loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We have issued warrants to purchase 2,807,834 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If, and to the extent, these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intends to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, does not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Shareholders do not have preemptive rights and therefore are subject to dilution. Our Certificate of Incorporation denies the holders of Common Stock the right to subscribe for additional shares of capital stock upon any issuance or increase thereof. As a result, upon the issuance by the Company of any additional shares of Common Stock or securities convertible into Common Stock or preferred stock of the Company subsequent to the Offering, our stockholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata ownership of Common Stock. 