ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be adversely affected, which in turn could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry and Business Our utility operations are heavily regulated. Decisions by state PUCs and other regulatory agencies can significantly affect our business and results of operations. Our Regulated Businesses provide water and wastewater services to our customers through subsidiaries economically regulated by state PUCs. Economic regulation affects the rates we charge our customers and has a significant effect on our business and results of operations. Generally, the state PUCs authorize us to charge rates that they determine are sufficient to recover our prudently incurred operating expenses, to enable us to finance the addition of new, or the replacement of existing, water and wastewater infrastructure and to allow us the opportunity to earn what they determine to be an appropriate rate of return on our invested capital and a return of our invested capital. Our ability to meet our financial objectives depends upon the rates authorized by the various state PUCs. We periodically file rate increase applications with state PUCs. The ensuing administrative process may be lengthy and costly. We can provide no assurances that our rate increase requests will be granted. Even if approved, there is no guarantee that approval will be given in a timely manner or at a sufficient level to cover our expenses, the recovery of our investment and/or provide us an opportunity to earn an appropriate rate of return on our investment and a return of our investment. If the authorized rates are insufficient to cover operating expenses, to allow for the recovery of our investment and to provide an appropriate return on invested capital, or if the rate increase decisions are delayed, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity may be adversely affected. Even if rates are sufficient, we face the risk that we will not achieve the rates of return on our invested capital and a return of our invested capital that are permitted by the state PUC. Our operations and the quality of water we supply are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. Our operating costs have increased, and are expected to continue to increase, as a result of complying with environmental laws and regulations. We also could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under such laws and regulations. Our water and wastewater operations are subject to extensive United States Federal, state and local and, in the case of our Canadian operations, Canadian, laws and regulations, that govern the protection of the environment, health and safety, the quality of the water we deliver to our customers, water allocation rights, and the manner in which we collect, treat, discharge and dispose of wastewater. These requirements include the United States Clean Water Act of 1972, which we refer to as the Clean Water Act, and the United States Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, which we refer to as the Safe Drinking Water Act, and similar state and Canadian laws and regulations. We are also required to obtain various environmental permits from regulatory agencies for our operations. State PUCs also set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we deliver. If we deliver water or wastewater services to our customers that do not comply with regulatory standards, or otherwise violate environmental laws, regulations or permits, or other health and safety and water quality regulations, we could incur substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions or costs or damage to our reputation. In the most serious cases, regulators could force us to discontinue operations and sell our operating assets to another utility or municipality. Given the nature of our business which, in part, involves supplying water for human 26 Table of Contents consumption, any potential non-compliance with, or violation of, environmental laws or regulations would likely pose a more significant risk to us than to an issuer not similarly involved in the water and wastewater industry. We incur substantial operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws and regulations and other health and safety and water quality regulations. These laws and regulations, and their enforcement, have tended to become more stringent over time, and new or stricter requirements could increase our costs. Although we may seek to recover ongoing compliance costs in our rates, there can be no guarantee that the various state PUCs or similar regulatory bodies that govern our Regulated Businesses would approve rate increases to recover such costs or that such costs will not adversely and materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. We may also incur liabilities under environmental laws and regulations requiring us to investigate and clean up environmental contamination at our properties or at off-site locations where we have disposed of waste or caused adverse environmental impacts. The discovery of previously unknown conditions, or the imposition of cleanup obligations in the future, could result in significant costs, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Such remediation losses may not be covered by our insurance policies and may make it difficult for us to secure insurance in the future at acceptable rates. Market disruptions caused by the worldwide financial crisis could affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs at reasonable cost and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our revolving credit facility and the capital markets to satisfy our liquidity needs. Further disruptions in the credit markets or further deterioration of the banking industry’s financial condition, may discourage or prevent lenders from meeting their existing lending commitments, extending the terms of such commitments or agreeing to new commitments. Market disruptions may also limit our ability to issue debt securities in the capital markets. On September 15, 2008, we sought to issue commercial paper but were unable to consummate the issuance due to adverse market conditions. In order to meet our short-term liquidity needs we are borrowing under our existing $840 million revolving credit facility. Commitments under this revolving credit facility of $685 million mature on September 15, 2013, and the remaining $155 million expire on September 15, 2012. American Water Capital Corp. (“AWCC”), our financing subsidiary, had $345.0 million of outstanding borrowings and $43.9 million of outstanding letters of credit under this credit facility as of February 23, 2009. AWCC had $178.5 million of outstanding overnight commercial paper as of February 23, 2009. We can provide no assurances that our lenders will meet their existing commitments or that we will be able to access the commercial paper or loan markets in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has issued through its subsidiaries $120.3 million of variable rate demand bonds which are periodically remarketed. During the months of January and February 2009, AWCC purchased its variable rate demand bonds because no buyer was willing to purchase the bonds at market rates. At February 23, 2009, AWCC holds all $120.3 million in treasury. We can provide no assurances that the bonds will be remarketed successfully or at reasonable interest rates. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, reduced financing alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the market stabilizes or until alternative financing can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, reducing dividend payments, and reducing other discretionary expenditures. Continued market disruptions could cause a broad economic downturn which may lead to increased incidence of customers’ failure to pay for services delivered, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The capital market disruptions could result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities, increased commercial paper borrowing costs, and increased costs related to variable rate debt. As a result, continuation of the market disruptions could increase the Company’s interest expense and adversely impact our results of operations. 27 Table of Contents The disruption in the capital markets and its actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy also adversely affects the value of the investments held within the Company’s employee benefit plan trusts. Significant declines in the value of the investments held within the Company’s employee benefit plan trusts may require the Company to increase contributions to those trusts in order to meet future funding requirements if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value in the foreseeable future. These trends may also adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, net cash flows and financial positions, including our shareholders’ equity. Market conditions may unfavorably impact the value of benefit plan assets and liabilities which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and could significantly impact our results of operations and financial position. The Company has significant obligations in these areas and the Company holds significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations, which may affect investment returns, which may fall below the Company’s projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, as was experienced in 2008, will increase the funding requirements under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value. Additionally, the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Also, future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets may not be fully recoverable from our customers, and our the results of operations and financial position of the Company could be negatively affected. During 2008, the Company’s unfunded status of its pension plan increased significantly primarily due to lower than expected 2008 asset returns, which are expected to result in increased benefit costs and required funding contributions in future years. Based on current plan assets and expected future asset returns, the Company currently estimates the increase to pension and postretirement expense (net of capitalized amounts) in 2009 to be approximately $32 million, pre-tax. It is the Company’s intent to work with PUCs in the states in which it operates to minimize the impact of such increases on its results of operations. The Company currently expects to make pension and postretirement benefit contributions to the plan trusts of $125.9 million, $132.5 million, $124.7 million, $161.9 million and $123.2 million in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively. Actual amounts contributed could change significantly from these estimates. Changes in laws and regulations over which we have no control can significantly affect our business and results of operations. Any governmental entity that regulates our operations may enact new legislation or adopt new regulations or policies at any time, and new judicial decisions may change the interpretation of existing legislation or regulations at any time. The individuals who serve as regulators are elected or are political appointees. Therefore, elections which result in a change of political administration or new appointments may also result in changes in the individuals who serve as regulators and the policies of the regulatory agencies that they serve. New laws or regulations, new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, or changes in agency policy, including as a response to shifts in public opinion, or conditions imposed during the regulatory hearing process may affect our business in a number of ways, including the following: • making it more difficult for us to raise our rates and, as a consequence, to recover our costs or earn our expected rates of return; • changing the determination of the costs, or the amount of costs, that would be considered recoverable in rate cases; 28 Table of Contents • changing water quality or delivery service standards or wastewater collection, treatment, discharge and disposal standards with which we must comply; • restricting our ability to terminate our services to customers who owe us money for services previously provided; • requiring us to provide water services at reduced rates to certain customers; • restricting our ability to sell assets or issue securities; • changing regulatory benefits that we expected to receive when we began offering services in a particular area; • changing or placing additional limitations on change in control requirements relating to any concentration of ownership of our common stock; • making it easier for governmental entities to convert our assets to public ownership via eminent domain; • restricting or prohibiting our extraction of water from rivers, streams, reservoirs or aquifers; and • revoking or altering the terms of the certificates of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) issued to us by state PUCs. Any of these changes or any other changes in laws, regulations, judicial decisions or agency policies applicable to us may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Weather conditions, natural hazards, availability of water supplies and competing uses may interfere with our sources of water, demand for water services and our ability to supply water to customers. Our ability to meet the existing and future water demands of our customers depends on an adequate supply of water. As a general rule, sources of public water supply, including rivers, lakes, streams and groundwater aquifers are held in the public trust and are not owned by private interests. As such, we typically do not own the water that we use in our operations, and the availability of our water supply is established through allocation rights and passing-flow requirements set by governmental entities. Passing-flow requirements set minimum volumes of water that must pass through specified water sources, such as rivers and streams, in order to maintain environmental habitats and meet water allocation rights of downstream users. Allocation rights are imposed to ensure sustainability of major water sources and passing flow requirements are most often imposed on source waters from smaller rivers, lakes and streams. These requirements can change from time to time and adversely impact our water supply. Drought, overuse of sources of water, the protection of threatened species or habitats or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water. Governmental restrictions on water use may also result in decreased use of water services, even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal drought conditions that would impact our water services are possible across all of our service areas, and drought conditions currently exist in several areas of the United States. However, these conditions are more prevalent in the Northeast and West where supply capacity is limited and per capita water demand is high. If a regional drought were to occur affecting our service areas and adjacent systems, governmental restrictions may be imposed on all systems within a region independent of the supply adequacy of any individual system. There have been no mandatory water use restriction orders to date in 2009, although voluntary conservation efforts or water use restrictions were implemented during certain periods of 2008 in parts of New Jersey, New Mexico, New York and California. Following drought conditions, water demand may not return to pre-drought levels even after restrictions are lifted. Cool and wet weather may also reduce demand for water, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. 29 Table of Contents Service interruptions due to severe weather events are possible across all our service areas. These include winter storms and freezing conditions in our colder climate service areas, high wind conditions in our service areas known to experience tornados, earthquakes in our service areas known to experience seismic activity, high water conditions for our facilities located in or near designated flood plains, hurricanes in our coastal service areas and severe electrical storms which are possible across all of our service areas. These weather events may affect the condition or operability of our facilities, limiting or preventing us from delivering water or wastewater services to our customers, or requiring us to make substantial capital expenditures to repair any damage. Any interruption in our ability to supply water or to collect, treat and properly dispose of wastewater, or any costs associated with restoring service, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, losses from business interruptions or damage to our facilities might not be covered by our insurance policies and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance in the future at acceptable rates. Declining residential per customer water usage may reduce our long-term revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Increased water conservation, including through the use of more efficient household fixtures and appliances among residential consumers, combined with declining household sizes in the United States, has contributed to a trend of declining residential per customer water usage. Our Regulated Businesses are heavily dependent upon revenue generated from rates we charge to our residential customers for the volume of water they use. The rate we charge for our water is regulated by state PUCs, and we may not unilaterally adjust our rates to reflect demand. Declining usage will have a negative impact on our long-term operating revenues if we are unable to secure rate increases or to grow our residential customer base to the extent necessary to offset the residential usage decline. Risks associated with the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater may impose significant costs. The wastewater collection, treatment and disposal operations of our subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation and involve significant environmental risks. If collection or sewage systems fail, overflow or do not operate properly, untreated wastewater or other contaminants could spill onto nearby properties or into nearby streams and rivers, causing damage to persons or property, injury to aquatic life and economic damages, which may not be recoverable in rates. This risk is most acute during periods of substantial rainfall or flooding, which are the main causes of sewer overflow and system failure. Liabilities resulting from such damage could adversely and materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, in the event that we are deemed liable for any damage caused by overflow, our losses might not be covered by insurance policies, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance in the future at acceptable rates. Our Regulated Businesses require significant capital expenditures to maintain infrastructure and expand our rate base and may suffer if we fail to secure appropriate funding to make investments, or if we suffer delays in completing major capital expenditure projects. The water and wastewater utility business is capital intensive. In addition to our acquisition strategy, we invest significant amounts of capital to add, replace and maintain property, plant and equipment. In 2008, we invested $1,008.8 million in net Company-funded capital improvements. We expect the level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the integrity of our systems to increase in the future. We fund these projects from cash generated from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper programs and the issuance of long-term debt and equity securities. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to access the debt and equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all. RWE has certain registration rights with respect to future issuances of our equity securities and intends to fully divest its remaining ownership of American Water as soon as reasonably practicable, subject to market conditions. The registration rights agreement entered into with RWE imposes certain restrictions on our ability to issue equity securities in amounts beyond specified thresholds without RWE’s consent. Sales of our common stock by RWE, as well as the restrictions in the registration rights agreement, may make it more difficult or 30 Table of Contents costly for us to raise additional equity in the future. Furthermore, if we are unable to raise sufficient equity, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to access the debt capital markets on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we believe that our dividend policy could limit, but not preclude, our ability to pursue growth. In particular, this limitation could be significant, for example, with respect to large acquisitions and growth opportunities that require cash investments in amounts greater than our operating subsidiaries’ available cash or external financing resources. In order to fund construction expenditures, acquisitions (including tuck-in acquisitions) and principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, and pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we expect that we will need additional financing. However, we intend to retain sufficient cash from operating activities after the distribution of dividends to fund a portion of our capital expenditures. For further discussion of our acquisition strategy, see “Item 1—Growth.” If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we may fail to maintain our existing property, plant and equipment, realize our capital investment strategies, meet our growth targets and successfully expand the rate base upon which we are able to earn future returns on our investment and a return of our investment. Even if we have adequate resources to make required capital expenditures, we face the additional risk that we will not complete our major capital expenditures on time, as a result of construction delays or other obstacles. Each of these outcomes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We also face the risk that after we make substantial capital expenditures, the rate increases granted to us by state PUCs may not be sufficient to recover our prudently incurred operating expenses and to allow us the opportunity to earn an appropriate rate of return on our invested capital and a return of our invested capital. The failure of, or the requirement to repair, upgrade or dismantle, any of our dams may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We own approximately 100 dams. A failure of any of those dams could result in injuries and property damage downstream for which we may be liable. The failure of a dam would also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any losses or liabilities incurred due to a failure of one of our dams might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance in the future at acceptable rates. We also are required from time to time to repair or upgrade the dams that we own. The cost of such repairs can be and has been material. We might not be able to recover such costs through rates. The inability to recover these higher costs or regulatory lag in the recovery of such costs can affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. The federal and state agencies that regulate our operations may adopt rules and regulations requiring us to dismantle our dams. Federal and state agencies are currently considering rules and regulations that could require us to strengthen or dismantle one of our dams on the Carmel River in California due to safety concerns related to seismic activity. Any requirement to strengthen or dismantle this dam could result in substantial costs that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are currently engaged in negotiations with federal and state agencies and local stakeholders on a plan to maintain our existing Carmel River dams or to share the costs of dismantling one of them with those federal and state agencies and local stakeholders. These negotiations could be delayed or abandoned. Any failure of our network of water and wastewater pipes and water reservoirs could result in losses and damages that may affect our financial condition and reputation. Our operating subsidiaries distribute water and wastewater through an extensive network of pipes and store water in reservoirs located across the United States. A failure of major pipes or reservoirs could result in injuries and property damage for which we may be liable. The failure of major pipes and reservoirs may also result in the need to shut down some facilities or parts of our network in order to conduct repairs. Such failures and shutdowns may limit our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and to meet the water and wastewater delivery requirements prescribed by governmental regulators, including state PUCs with jurisdiction 31 Table of Contents over our operations, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and reputation. Any business interruption or other losses might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance in the future at acceptable rates. Contamination of our sources of water could result in service interruptions and human exposure to hazardous substances and subject our subsidiaries to civil or criminal enforcement actions, private litigation and cleanup obligations. Our water supplies are subject to contamination, including contamination from naturally-occurring compounds, chemicals in groundwater systems, pollution resulting from man-made sources, such as perchlorate and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), and possible terrorist attacks. In the event that our water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to substitute the supply of water from another water source, including, in some cases, through the purchase of water from a third-party supplier. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. If we are unable to substitute water supply in a cost-effective manner, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and reputation may be adversely affected. We might not be able to recover costs associated with treating or decontaminating water supplies through rates, or such recovery may not occur in a timely manner. Moreover, we could be held liable for environmental damage as well as damages arising from toxic tort or other lawsuits or criminal enforcement actions or other consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances in our drinking water supplies. Our liquidity and earnings could be adversely affected by increases in our production costs, including the cost of chemicals, electricity, fuel or other significant materials used in the water and wastewater treatment process. We incur significant production costs in connection with the delivery of our water and wastewater services. Our production costs are driven by inputs such as chemicals used to treat water and wastewater as well as electricity and fuel, which are used to operate pumps and other equipment used in water treatment and delivery and wastewater collection, treatment and disposal. We also incur production costs for waste disposal. For 2008, production costs accounted for 11.4% of our total operating costs. These costs can and do increase unexpectedly and in substantial amounts, as occurred in California during 2001 and Illinois during 2007, when the cost of electricity rose substantially. Our Regulated Businesses might not be able to recover increases in the costs of chemicals, electricity, fuel, other significant inputs or waste disposal through rates, or such recovery may not occur in a timely manner. Our Non-Regulated Businesses may not be able to recover these costs in contract prices or other terms. The inability to recover these higher costs can affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Our reliance on third-party suppliers poses significant risks to our business and prospects. We contract with third parties for goods and services that are essential to our operations, such as maintenance services, pipes, chemicals, electricity, water, gasoline, diesel and other materials. We are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on these suppliers. For example: • our suppliers may not provide raw materials that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities; • our suppliers may provide us with water that does not meet applicable quality standards or is contaminated; • our suppliers may face production delays due to natural disasters or strikes, lock-outs or other such actions; • one or more suppliers could make strategic changes in the lines of products and services they offer; and • some of our suppliers are small companies which are more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies, because of their limited financial and other resources. 32 Table of Contents As a result of any of these factors, we may be required to find alternative suppliers for the raw materials and services on which we rely. Accordingly, we may experience delays in obtaining appropriate raw materials and services on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities from such alternative suppliers at a reasonable price, which could interrupt services to our customers and adversely affect our revenues, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Risks associated with potential acquisitions or investments may adversely affect us. We will continue to seek to acquire or invest in additional regulated water or wastewater systems, including by acquiring systems in markets in the United States where we do not currently operate our Regulated Businesses, and through tuck-ins. We will also continue to seek to enter into public/private partnerships, including O&M, military and design, build and operate, which we refer to as DBO, contracts and services that complement our businesses. These transactions may result in: • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • failure to have or to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; • fluctuations in quarterly results; • exposure to unknown risk and liabilities, such as environmental liabilities; and • other acquisition-related expenses. We may also experience difficulty in obtaining required regulatory approvals for acquisitions, and any regulatory approvals we obtain may require us to agree to costly and restrictive conditions imposed by regulators. Sales of our common stock by RWE, as well as the restrictions in the registration rights agreement between us and RWE, may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise additional equity to fund an acquisition or to issue shares as consideration in connection with an acquisition. We may not identify all significant risks when conducting due diligence for a transaction, and we could be exposed to potential liabilities for which we will not be indemnified. There may be difficulties integrating new businesses, including bringing newly acquired businesses up to the necessary level of regulatory compliance, retaining and integrating key personnel, achieving strategic objectives and integrating acquired assets and technological systems. The demands of identifying and transitioning newly acquired businesses or pursuing investment opportunities may also divert management’s attention from other business concerns and otherwise disrupt our business. Any of these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets, causing us to record impairments that may negatively affect our results of operations or require us to effect additional dilutive equity issuances. Our total assets include substantial goodwill. At December 31, 2008, our goodwill totaled $1,699.5 million. The goodwill is primarily associated with the acquisition of American Water by an affiliate of RWE in 2003 and the acquisition of E’Town Corporation in 2001. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price the purchaser paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is recorded at fair value on the date of an acquisition and, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” or SFAS No. 142, is reviewed annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Annual impairment reviews are performed at November 30 of each year and interim reviews are performed when management determines that a triggering event has occurred. We have been required to reflect, as required by SFAS No. 142 and other applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating results for goodwill impairment in the amounts of $750.0 million, $509.3 million, and $227.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These amounts include impairments relating to discontinued operations. As a result of these impairments, net income was reduced by $738.5 million, $501.5 million and $223.6 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 33 Table of Contents The Company may be required to recognize an impairment of goodwill in the future due to market conditions or other factors related to the Company’s performance. These market events could include a decline over a period of time of the Company’s stock price, a decline over a period of time in valuation multiples of comparable water utilities, the lack of an increase in the Company’s market price consistent with its peer companies, or decreases in control premiums and the overhang effect. A decline in the forecasted results in our business plan, such as changes in rate case results or capital investment budgets or changes in our interest rates, could also result in an impairment charge. Recognition of impairments of a significant portion of goodwill would negatively affect the Company’s reported results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material and could make it more difficult to maintain its credit ratings, secure financing on attractive terms, maintain compliance with debt covenants and meet expectations of our regulators. Our Regulated Businesses compete with governmental entities, other regulated utilities, as well as strategic and financial buyers, for acquisition opportunities, which may hinder our ability to grow our business. We compete with governmental entities, other regulated utilities, as well as strategic and financial buyers, for acquisition opportunities, including tuck-ins. Our competitors may impede our growth by purchasing water utilities near our existing operations, thereby preventing us from acquiring them. Competing governmental entities, utilities and strategic and financial buyers have challenged, and may in the future challenge, our applications for new service territories. Our growth could be hindered if we are not able to compete effectively for new territories with other companies or strategic and financial buyers that have lower costs of operations or that can submit more attractive bids. The assets of our Regulated Businesses are subject to condemnation through eminent domain. Municipalities and other government subdivisions have historically been involved in the provision of water and wastewater services in the United States, and organized movements may arise from time to time in one or more of the service areas in which our Regulated Businesses operate to convert our assets to public ownership and operation through the governmental power of eminent domain. Should a municipality or other government subdivision seek to acquire our assets through eminent domain, we may resist the acquisition. Contesting an exercise of condemnation through eminent domain may result in costly legal proceedings and may divert the attention of the affected Regulated Business’s management from the operation of its business. On September 5, 2008, under threat of condemnation, California American Water sold the assets of our Felton, California water system, which served approximately 1,330 customers, to the San Lorenzo Valley Water District, which we refer to as SLVWD. The most recent prior sale of our water and wastewater systems under threat of condemnation occurred in 2003. If a municipality or other government subdivision succeeds in acquiring the assets of one or more of our Regulated Businesses through eminent domain, there is a risk that we will not receive adequate compensation for the business, that we will not be able to keep the compensation, or that we will not be able to divest the business without incurring significant one-time charges. In order to consummate the proposed RWE Divestiture, we and RWE were required to obtain approvals from thirteen state PUCs. There can be no guarantee that some state PUC approvals already granted to us will not be appealed, withdrawn, modified or stayed. To consummate the proposed RWE Divestiture, we and RWE obtained regulatory approvals from state PUCs in 13 states. The state PUC approval in Illinois has been appealed, and there can be no guarantee that the state PUC approval in Illinois will not be overturned. Moreover, some of our existing state PUC approvals may be withdrawn or altered in the future by the state PUCs because they retain authority to withdraw or modify their prior decisions. There also can be no guarantee that, in conjunction with an appeal or otherwise, a stay or other form of injunctive relief will not be granted by a state PUC or reviewing court. In addition, two of the regulatory approvals that we and RWE obtained expire on April 22, 2010 and another approval expires on April 22, 2011. If RWE does not fully divest its remaining ownership of American Water by 34 Table of Contents such dates, then we and RWE may be required to seek an extension of such approvals, as applicable, which process may result in delays, costs and the imposition of additional conditions on us or on RWE. In order to obtain the state PUC approvals to consummate the proposed RWE Divestiture we were required to accept certain conditions and restrictions that could increase our costs. Some of the regulatory approvals contain conditions and restrictions, including reporting obligations, obligations to maintain appropriate creditworthiness, restrictions on changes of control, prohibitions on the pass- through of our initial Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance costs, prohibitions on the pass-through of certain costs of the initial public offering and related transactions, service quality and staffing level requirements and the maintenance of specific collective bargaining agreements and retirement and certain other post-employment benefit programs. These conditions and restrictions could increase our costs and adversely affect our business. Our Non-Regulated Businesses, through American Water (excluding our regulated subsidiaries), provide performance guarantees and other forms of financial security to our public-sector clients that could be claimed by our clients or potential clients if we do not meet certain obligations. Under the terms of some of our indebtedness and some of our agreements for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities with municipalities, other governmental entities and other customers, American Water (excluding its regulated subsidiaries) provides guarantees of the performance of our Non-Regulated Businesses, including financial guarantees or deposits, to ensure performance of certain obligations. At December 31, 2008, we had remaining performance commitments as measured by remaining contract revenue totaling approximately $2,288.8 million, and this amount is likely to increase if our Non-Regulated Businesses grow. The presence of these commitments may adversely affect our financial condition and make it more difficult for us to secure financing on attractive terms. In addition, if the obligor on the instrument fails to perform certain obligations to the satisfaction of the party that holds the performance commitments that party may seek to enforce the performance commitments against us or proceed against the deposit. In that event, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity could be adversely affected. We operate a number of water and wastewater systems under O&M contracts and face the risk that the owners of those systems may fail to maintain those systems, which will negatively affect us as the operators of the systems. We operate a number of water and wastewater systems under O&M contracts. Pursuant to these contracts, we operate the system according to the standards set forth in the applicable contract, and it is generally the responsibility of the owner to undertake capital improvements. In some cases, we may not be able to convince the owner to make needed improvements in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulations. Although violations and fines incurred by water and wastewater systems may be the responsibility of the owner of the system under these contracts, those non-compliance events may reflect poorly on us as the operator of the system and damage our reputation, and in some cases, may result in liability to the same extent as if we were the owner. Our Non-Regulated Businesses are party to long-term contracts to operate and maintain water and wastewater systems under which we may incur costs in excess of payments received. Some of our Non-Regulated Businesses enter into long-term contracts pursuant to which they agree to operate and maintain a municipality’s, Federal government’s or other party’s water or wastewater treatment and delivery facilities, which includes responsibility for certain major maintenance for some of those facilities, in exchange for an annual fee. Our Non-Regulated Businesses are generally subject to the risk that costs associated with operating and maintaining the facilities may exceed the fees received from the municipality or other contracting party. In addition, directly or through our non-regulated subsidiaries, we often guarantee our Non-Regulated Businesses’ obligations under those contracts. Losses under these contracts or guarantees may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. 35 Table of Contents We rely on our IT systems to assist with the management of our business and customer and supplier relationships, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. Our IT systems are an integral part of our business, and a serious disruption of our IT systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently, which in turn could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and cause our results of operations to be reduced. We depend on our IT systems to bill customers, process orders, provide customer service, manage construction projects, manage our financial records, track assets, remotely monitor certain of our plants and facilities and manage human resources, inventory and accounts receivable collections. Our IT systems also allow us to purchase products from our suppliers and bill customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations and provide service to our customers. Our IT systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • power loss, computer systems failures and internet, telecommunications or data network failures; • operator negligence or improper operation by, or supervision of, employees; • physical and electronic loss of customer data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; • computer viruses; • intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and • hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Such damages or interruptions may result in physical and electronic loss of customer or financial data, security breaches, misappropriation and similar events. In addition, the lack of redundancy for certain of our IT systems, including billing systems, could exacerbate the impact on the Company of any of the foregoing events. In addition, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our business and we might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary upgrades or replacements of our outdated existing technology to allow us to continue to operate at our current level of efficiency. Our indebtedness could affect our business adversely and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2008, our indebtedness (including preferred stock with mandatory redemption requirements) was $5,303.0 million, and our working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, was in a deficit position. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital or capital expenditures; • exposing us to interest rate risk with respect to the portion of our indebtedness that bears interest at a variable rate; • limiting our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or make payments in connection with our other obligations; • likely requiring that a portion of our cash flow from operations be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends on our common stock or capital expenditures; • limiting our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that have less debt. In order to meet our capital expenditure needs, we may be required to make additional borrowings under our credit facilities or be required to issue new debt securities in the capital markets. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to access the debt capital markets or do so on favorable terms. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify, limiting our ability to refinance existing debt on favorable terms. We will depend primarily on operations to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our 36 Table of Contents control. If we do not have enough money to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow additional funds or sell additional equity. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if we are unable to incur indebtedness sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, we may be unable to plan for or respond to changes in our business that would prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business and cause our operating results and prospects to be affected adversely. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our credit facilities could trigger prepayment obligations. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants under our credit facilities could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay or refinance (on less favorable terms) these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to repay or refinance (on less favorable terms) these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates. In 2007, we were not in compliance with reporting covenants contained in some of the debt agreements of our subsidiaries. Such defaults under the reporting covenants were caused by our delay in producing our 2006 quarterly and audited annual consolidated financial statements. We have obtained all necessary waivers under the agreements. We can provide no assurance that we will comply in the future with all our reporting covenants and will not face an event of default under our debt agreements, or that such default will be cured or waived. Work stoppages and other labor relations matters could adversely affect our results of operations. Currently, approximately 3,700 of our employees, or approximately 51% of our total workforce, are unionized and represented by 20 different unions. Approximately one-fourth of our 76 union collective bargaining agreements expire annually, with 18 agreements covering 982 employees scheduled to expire before the end of 2009. We might not be able to renegotiate labor contracts on terms that are favorable to us and negotiations or dispute resolutions undertaken in connection with our labor contracts could be delayed or become subject to the risk of labor actions or work stoppages. Labor actions, work stoppages or the threat of work stoppages and our failure to obtain favorable labor contract terms during renegotiations may all adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting existed during 2008. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or on a timely basis. Any inability to report and file our financial results in an accurate and timely manner could harm our business and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules and regulations that govern public companies. In particular, we will be required to certify our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the year ended December 31, 2009, which requires us to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. However, from 2003 until the completion of our initial public offering in April 2008, we were an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of RWE, a stock corporation incorporated in the Federal Republic of Germany, and were not required to maintain a system of effective internal controls or comply with the requirements of the SEC and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, nor to prepare our own consolidated financial statements. As a public reporting company, we are required, among other things, to maintain a system of effective internal control over financial reporting suitable to prepare our publicly reported financial statements in a timely and accurate manner, and also to evaluate and report on such system of internal control. 37 Table of Contents A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2006, we and our independent registered public accountants identified the following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting: • inadequate internal staffing and skills; • inadequate controls over financial reporting processes; • inadequate controls over month-end closing processes, including account reconciliations; • inadequate controls over maintenance of contracts and agreements; • inadequate controls over segregation of duties and restriction of access to key accounting applications; and • inadequate controls over tax accounting and accruals. Each of these weaknesses could have resulted in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2008, we consider the control deficiency relating to the maintenance of contracts and agreements should remain as a material weakness until we have sufficient experience with the sustainability of the levels at which it has been operating. This weakness could result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. For further discussion, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Our Internal Control and Remediation Initiatives.” Moreover, we cannot assure you that we have identified all, or that we will not in the future have additional, material weaknesses, any of which may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, and cause future delays in filing our financial statements and periodic reports with the SEC. Any such delays in the filing of our financial statements and periodic reports may result in a loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and sanctions imposed on us by the SEC. We believe that such misstatements or delays could negatively impact our liquidity, access to capital markets, financial condition and the market value of our common stock or cause a downgrade in the credit ratings of American Water or AWCC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 