ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully read the risk factors set forth below, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, some of which are described below. The risks described below, however, are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Please refer to the discussion of “forward-looking” statements on page one of this Annual Report of Form 10-K in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. Our results of operations, financial condition and business will be harmed if we are unable to effectively match our capacity with customer demand. The global economic crisis resulted in weak demand for LED and SoS products in late 2008 and most of 2009, causing a significant reduction in orders for our sapphire substrates. As a result, our manufacturing facilities were underutilized, which negatively impacted our gross margins and overall business. Similarly, due to weakness in the LED backlighting market in 2011, demand for our products from our LED customers declined at the end of 2011 which resulted in lower utilization of some of our manufacturing facilities. We expect this underutilization of some of our manufacturing facilities to continue into the first half of 2012. There can be no assurance that such sudden market changes will not occur again in the future adversely affecting our profitability. We plan to continue to expand our production capacity as demand for our products strengthens. Our capacity expansion involves significant risks, including the availability of capital equipment and the timing of its installation, availability and timing of required electric power, management of expansion costs, timing of production ramp-up, qualification of our new equipment and demands on management’s time. If our business does not grow fast enough to utilize this new capacity effectively, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Conversely, delays in expanding our manufacturing capacity could impact our ability to meet future demand for our products. As a result, we might not be able to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and operating results. Moreover, our efforts to increase our production capacity may not succeed in enabling us to manufacture the required quantities of our products in a timely manner or at the gross margins that we achieved in the past. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully reach our production, timing and cost goals for our expansion. The average selling prices of products in the LED supply chain have historically been volatile. Historically, our industry has experienced volatility in product demand and pricing. Changes in average selling prices of our products as a result of competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts and new product introductions by our competitors could have a significant impact on our profitability. Although we attempt to optimize our product mix, introduce new products, reduce manufacturing costs and pass along certain increases in costs to our customers in order to lessen the effect of decreases in selling prices, we may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner and our results of operations and business may be harmed. In addition, rapid changes in market conditions have at times, caused financial hardship for our customers resulting is some write-offs of our accounts receivable. While we monitor the financial health of our customers, rapid changes in market conditions may result in additional accounts receivable write-offs in the future which could affect our results of operations. If LED lighting does not achieve greater market acceptance, or if alternative technologies are developed and gain market traction, prospects for our growth and profitability would be limited. Our future success depends on increased market acceptance of LED lighting. Approximately 93% of our revenue during 2011 and 2010 was from sales of our products for use in the manufacture of LED products. Potential customers for LED lighting systems may be reluctant to adopt LED lighting as an alternative to 12 Table of Contents traditional lighting technology because of its higher initial cost and relatively low light output per unit in comparison with the most powerful traditional lighting devices. In addition, our potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing lighting technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the novelty, complexity, reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of LED products compared to other lighting sources available in the market. If acceptance of LED lighting does not increase significantly, then opportunities to increase our revenues and operate profitably would be limited. Moreover, if effective new sources of light other than LED devices are developed, our current products and technologies could become less competitive or obsolete. Any of these factors could have a material and adverse impact on our growth and profitability. The technology used in the LED industry continues to change rapidly, and if we are unable to modify our products to adapt to future changes in the LED industry, we will be unable to attract or retain customers. We do not design or manufacture LEDs. Our ability to expand into new applications in the LED market depends on continued advancement in the design and manufacture of LEDs by others. The LED industry has been characterized by a rapid rate of development of new technologies and manufacturing processes, rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater functionality. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products for use in LED applications and to adjust our product specifications, such as our previous development of larger diameter wafers, in response to these developments in a timely manner. If our development efforts are not successful or are delayed, or if our newly developed products do not achieve market acceptance, we may be unable to attract or retain customers and our operating results could be harmed. In addition, although sapphire is currently the preferred substrate material for HB white, blue and green LED applications, we cannot assure you that the LED market will continue to demand the performance attributes of sapphire. Silicon carbide is another substrate material currently used for certain LED applications, including some that also use sapphire substrates. Other substrates being investigated and used in research and development for certain LED applications are aluminum nitride, zinc oxide and bulk gallium nitride. Research is also ongoing for the use of silicon substrates in LED applications. If sapphire is displaced as the substrate of choice for certain LED applications, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected unless we were able to successfully offer the competing substrate material. Our continuing efforts to enhance our current products and to develop new products involve several risks, including: • our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changes in customer requirements; • the possibility that sapphire may in the future be replaced as a preferred substrate in certain LED applications; • the significant research and development investment that we may be required to make before market acceptance of a particular new or enhanced product; • the possibility that the LED industry may not accept our new or enhanced products after we have invested a significant amount of resources in development; and • competition from new technologies, processes and products introduced by our current and/or future competitors. If the development and acceptance of our products for the SoS RFIC market do not meet our expectations, our future operating results may be harmed. The level of market acceptance of our SoS RFIC products may impact our future operating results. Our success in the SoS RFIC market depends on a number of factors, including: • the success of our customers’ products in current applications; and • the acceptance of SoS RFIC products for newly targeted applications. 13 Table of Contents In addition, it is possible that other solutions, such as silicon-on-insulator, may become preferred over SoS. We cannot assure you that the RFIC market will continue to require the performance attributes of SoS solutions. If our products are not accepted more broadly in the RFIC market, our results of operations and business may be harmed. We depend on a few customers for a major portion of our sales and our results of operations would be adversely impacted if they reduced their order volumes. Historically, we have earned, and believe that in the future we will continue to earn, a substantial portion of our revenue from a small number of customers. In 2011 and 2010, sales to our top three customers represented approximately 69% and 46% of our revenues, respectively. If we were to lose one of our major customers or have a major customer significantly reduce its volume of business with us, our revenues and profitability would be materially reduced unless we are able to replace such demand with other orders promptly. We expect to continue to be dependent on our significant customers, the number and identity of which may change from period to period. We generally sell our products on the basis of purchase orders. Delays in product orders could cause our quarterly revenue to vary significantly. A number of factors could cause our customers to cancel or defer orders, including interruptions to their operations due to a downturn in their industries, natural disasters, delays in manufacturing their own product offerings into which our products are incorporated, securing other sources for the products that we manufacture or developing such products internally. Our manufacturing processes may be interrupted or our production may be delayed if we cannot maintain sufficient electrical supply, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our manufacturing process requires a stable source of electricity. From time to time, we have experienced limited disruptions in our supply of electricity. Such disruptions, depending upon their duration, could result in a significant drop in throughput and yield of in-process crystal boules and create delays in our production. Although we use generators and other back-up sources of electricity, these replacement sources of electricity are only capable of providing effective back-up for limited periods of time. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in avoiding future disruptions in power or in mitigating the effects of such disruptions. Any material disruption in electrical supply could delay our production and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our gross margins and profitability may be adversely affected by rising energy costs. Most of our power consumption takes place in our crystal growth facilities in the U.S. Electricity prices could increase due to overall changes to the price of energy due to conditions in the Middle East, natural gas shortages in the U.S. and other economic conditions and uncertainties regarding the outcome and implications of such events. Once our current agreements expire, if electricity prices increase significantly, we may not be able to pass these price increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which could adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results for particular periods to fall below expectations. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • timing of orders from and shipments to major customers; 14 Table of Contents • the gain or loss of significant customers; • fluctuations in gross margins as a result of changes in capacity utilization, product mix or other factors; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; • the need to pay higher labor costs as we continue to grow; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or upgrades to existing products by us or our competitors; • competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by our competitors and our customers’ competitors; • developments in trade secrets, patent or other proprietary rights by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; • interruption of operations at our manufacturing facilities or the facilities of our suppliers; • the level and timing of capital spending of our customers; • additions or departures of key personnel; • potential seasonal fluctuations in our customers’ business activities; and • natural disasters, such as floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as interruptions in power supply resulting from such events or due to other causes. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. If our revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts that may publish research on our company, the price of our common stock would likely decline. Our gross margins could decline as a result of changes in our product mix and other factors, which may adversely impact our operating results. We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate from period to period as a result of the mix of products that we sell in any given period. If our sales mix shifts to lower margin products in future periods, our overall gross margin levels and operating results would be adversely impacted. Increased competition and the adoption of alternatives to our products, more complex engineering requirements, lower demand and other factors may lead to a further downward shift in our product margins, leading to price erosion and lower revenues for us in the future. Our proprietary intellectual property rights may not adequately protect our products and technologies, and the failure to protect such rights could harm our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. To protect our technology, we have chosen to rely primarily on trade secrets rather than seeking protection through publicly filed patents. Trade secrets are inherently difficult to protect. While we believe we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our directors, employees, consultants or contractors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors, whether during or after the termination of their services to our company. If we were to seek to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. 15 Table of Contents In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets than U.S. courts. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, it will be more difficult for us to protect our intellectual property and our business could be harmed. We have no issued patents covering our products and technologies. Although we have filed applications for three patents, there can be no assurance that these patents will be issued or that any patents issued will be of significant value to our business. Our commercial success will depend on obtaining and maintaining trade secret, patent and other intellectual property protection of our products and technologies. We will only be able to protect products and technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid, protectable and enforceable trade secrets, patents or other intellectual property rights cover them. If we are not able to defend the trade secret or patent protection positions of our products and technologies, then we may not be able to successfully compete with competitors developing or marketing competing products and we may not generate enough revenue from product sales to justify the cost of development of our products and to achieve or maintain profitability. The protection of our intellectual property rights and the defense of claims of infringement against us by third parties may subject us to costly litigation. Other companies might allege that we are infringing certain of their patents or other rights. If we are unable to resolve these matters satisfactorily, or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms, we may face litigation. Any litigation to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how possessed by us or to defend us or indemnify others against claimed infringement of the rights of others could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Regardless of the validity or successful outcome of any such intellectual property claims, we may need to expend significant time and expense to protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we lose any such litigation where we are alleged to infringe the rights of others, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • seek licenses from others; or • change, or stop manufacturing or selling, some or all of our products. Any of these outcomes could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The markets in which we operate are very competitive, and many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger, more established and better capitalized than we are. The markets for selling high-quality sapphire products are very competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share or expected market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our competitors and potential competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Given their capital resources, the large companies with which we compete, or may compete in the future, are in a better position to substantially increase their manufacturing capacity and research and development efforts or to withstand any significant reduction in orders by customers in our markets. Such larger companies typically have broader product lines and market focus and thus are not as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. In addition, some of our competitors have been in operation much longer than we have and therefore may have more long-standing and established relationships with our current and potential domestic and foreign customers. 16 Table of Contents We would be at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors bring their products to market earlier, if their products are more technologically capable than ours, or if any of our competitors’ products or technologies were to become preferred in the industry. Moreover, we cannot assure you that existing or potential customers will not develop their own products, or acquire companies with products that are competitive with our products. Any of these competitive threats could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We are subject to risks from international sales that may harm our operating results. In 2011 and 2010 revenue from international sales was approximately 91% and 92%, respectively, of our total revenue. We expect that revenue from international sales will continue to constitute a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our international sales are subject to a variety of risks, including risks arising from: • trading restrictions, tariffs, trade barriers and taxes; • economic and political risks, wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest, pandemics, such as a recurrence of the SARS outbreak or avian flu, boycotts, curtailments of trade and other business restrictions; • the difficulty of enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • sales variability as a result of transacting our foreign sales in U.S. dollars as prices for our products become less competitive in countries with currencies that are low or are declining in value against the U.S. dollar and more competitive in countries with currencies that are high or increasing in value against the U.S. dollar; and • periodic foreign economic downturns. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international sales. Our failure to manage any of these risks could harm our operating results. We are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future success is dependent on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management who must work together effectively in order to design our products, expand our business, increase our revenues and improve our operating results. The loss of services of senior management, particularly Raja M. Parvez, our president and chief executive officer, and William F. Weissman, our chief financial officer, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. In addition, key personnel may be distracted by activities unrelated to our business. The loss of the services, or distraction, of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business and product development efforts could be harmed. Our success depends on our continued ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, manufacturing, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In particular, we may encounter difficulties in recruiting and retaining a sufficient number of qualified technical personnel. The inability to attract and retain necessary technical, managerial, manufacturing, administrative and sales and marketing personnel could harm our ability to obtain new customers and develop new products and could adversely affect our business and operating results. 17 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials and key components. We depend on a small number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components, services and equipment used in manufacturing our products, including key materials such as aluminum oxide and certain furnace components. We generally purchase these items with purchase orders, and we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with such suppliers. We are subject to variations in the cost of raw materials and consumables from period to period. We do not control the time and resources that these suppliers devote to our business, and we cannot be sure that these suppliers will perform their obligations to us or do so on a timely basis. In addition, some of these suppliers are located in regions of the world that may experience periods of political or economic instability. Any significant delay in product delivery or other interruption or variation in supply from our key suppliers could prevent us from meeting demand for our products and from obtaining future business. If we were to lose key suppliers or our key suppliers were unable to support our demand, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted and we could be required to attempt to establish supply arrangements with other suppliers. In addition, the inability of our suppliers to support our demand could be indicative of a marketwide scarcity of the materials, which could result in even longer interruptions. Any such delay or interruption would impair our ability to meet our customers’ needs and, therefore, could damage our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our products must meet exacting specifications, and undetected defects may occur, which may cause customers to return or stop buying our products. Our customers establish demanding specifications for quality, performance, and reliability that our products must meet. While we inspect our products before shipment, they still may contain undetected defects. If defects occur in our products, we could experience lost revenue, increased costs, delays in, or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, product returns or discounts or damage to our reputation, any of which would harm our operating results and our business. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, which could expose us to environmental liabilities, increase our manufacturing and related compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. In our manufacturing process, we use water, oils, slurries, acids, adhesives and other industrial chemicals. We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include those relating to the use, storage, handling, discharge, emission, disposal and reporting of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous materials used in our manufacturing processes. These materials may have been or could be released into the environment at properties currently or previously operated by us, at other locations during the transport of the materials, or at properties to which we send substances for treatment or disposal. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws and regulations or become non-compliant with permits required at some of our facilities, we could be held financially responsible and incur substantial costs, including investigation and cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damages or personal injury claims. In addition, new laws and regulations or stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations could give rise to additional compliance costs and liabilities. Our operations are concentrated in a small number of nearby facilities, and the unavailability of one or more of these facilities could harm our business. Our manufacturing, research and development, sales and marketing, and administrative activities are concentrated in three facilities in the Chicago metropolitan area and one facility in Penang, Malaysia. Should a natural disaster, such as a tornado or flood, act or terrorism, war or outbreak of disease severely affect the 18 Table of Contents Chicago area, our operations could be significantly impacted. We may not be able to replicate the manufacturing capacity and other operations of our Chicago facilities in our Malaysian facility or elsewhere, or such replication could take significant time and resources to accomplish. The disruption from such an event could adversely affect or interrupt entirely our ability to conduct our business. Similarly, should a disruption from such an event occur at our Malaysia facility, the disruption could adversely affect or interrupt our ability to conduct our business. We may acquire other businesses, products or technologies; if we do, we may be unable to integrate them with our business effectively or at all, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we find appropriate opportunities, we may acquire complementary businesses, product lines or technologies. However, if we acquire a business, product line or technology, the process of integration may produce unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant attention of our management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. Further, the acquisition of a business may result in the assumption of unknown liabilities or create risks with respect to our existing relationships with suppliers and customers. If we make acquisitions, we may issue shares of stock that dilute other stockholders, expend cash, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets, any of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We have incurred significant losses in prior periods and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred significant losses in prior periods. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $91.7 million. While we had net income of $38.1 million in 2011 and $29.1 million in 2010, we incurred a net loss of $9.6 million in 2009 and we incurred net losses in 2007 and 2006 of $2.9 million and $7.6 million, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient revenue growth to offset expenses or to achieve profitability in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and may continue to do so. Our common stock has only been publicly traded since November 16, 2007, and the trading price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially. From our initial public offering through March 14, 2012, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $2.50 to a high of $35.90. Factors related to our company and our business, as well as broad market and industry factors, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price include, among other things: • changes in market valuations of other companies in our industry; • changes in financial guidance or estimates by us, by investors or by any financial analysts who might cover our stock or our industry; • our ability to meet the performance expectations of financial analysts or investors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic partnerships; • general market and economic conditions; and • the size of the public float of our stock. 19 Table of Contents Fluctuations caused by factors such as these may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the other risks described elsewhere in this prospectus could adversely affect our stock price. Our board of directors does not intend to declare or pay any dividends to our stockholders in the foreseeable future. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors the board of directors considers relevant. There is no plan to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, and if dividends are paid, there can be no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with the affiliates of one of our directors will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. One of our directors and affiliates he controls together own 23% of our outstanding capital stock and voting power. For the foreseeable future, they will have significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. Their ownership may limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We could be the subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. The stock market in general, and market prices for the securities of companies like ours, recently have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of the underlying companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. When the market price of a stock declines significantly, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, our defense of the lawsuit could be costly and divert the time and attention of our management. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. A number of provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of Rubicon that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions include: • establishment of a classified board of directors; • granting to the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors; • the ability of our board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; • prohibition on stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; • prohibition on stockholders from acting by written consent; and 20 Table of Contents • establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. The foregoing provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 