Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital We have a limited operating history and a history of operating losses, and expect to incur additional operating losses in 2014. We were established in July 2006 and have only a limited operating history. Therefore, there is limited historical financial information upon which to base an evaluation of our performance. Our prospects must be considered in light of the uncertainties, risks, expenses, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of operation. We incurred a net loss of approximately $9.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $55.8 million. We expect to incur substantial additional operating expenses over the next several years as our research, development, pre-clinical testing, clinical trial and commercialization activities increase. The amount of future losses and when, if ever, we will achieve profitability are uncertain. Having only launched Neutrolin in December 2013, we have no products that have generated any significant commercial revenue, do not expect to generate substantial revenues from Neutrolin until at least 2015, and might never generate significant revenues from the sale of Neutrolin or any other products. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability will depend on, among other things, the following: successfully marketing Neutrolin in Germany; obtaining necessary regulatory approvals for Neutrolin from the other applicable European and Middle East agencies, other foreign agencies and the FDA and international regulatory agencies for any other products; successful completion of the development of our other product candidates; establishing manufacturing, sales, and marketing arrangements, either alone or with third parties; and raising sufficient funds to finance our activities. We might not succeed at any of these undertakings. If we are unsuccessful at some or all of these undertakings, our business, prospects, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable. We have a history of losses and expect to incur losses and negative operating cash flow in 2014, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Until we successfully commercialize Neutrolin or other product candidates, we expect to incur losses and may never become profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures as we pursue the U.S. development of Neutrolin and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we continue to undertake development and commercialization of Neutrolin and our other product candidates, undertake clinical trials of our product candidates, seek regulatory approvals for product candidates, implement additional internal systems and infrastructure, and hire additional personnel. We also expect to experience negative cash flow as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate these revenues or achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability would negatively impact the value of our securities. We will need to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. Any additional funds that we obtain may not be on terms favorable to us or our stockholders and may require us to relinquish valuable rights. We launched Neutrolin in Germany in the fourth quarter of 2013, but to date have no other approved product on the market and have not generated significant product revenue from Neutrolin to date. Unless and until we receive applicable regulatory approval for Neutrolin in the U.S. and for any other product candidates, we cannot sell those products in the U.S. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from Neutrolin sales in Europe and other foreign markets, if approved, cash on hand, additional financings, licensing fees and grants. Based on the funds we have raised through March 31, 2014, we believe that existing cash will be sufficient to enable us to fund our projected operating requirements into 2015. However, we may need to raise additional funds more quickly if one or more of our assumptions prove to be incorrect or if we choose to expand our product development efforts more rapidly than we presently anticipate, and we may decide to raise additional funds even before we need them if the conditions for raising capital are favorable. We may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain a bank credit facility, or enter into a corporate collaboration or licensing arrangement. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, if convertible, could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also result in covenants that would restrict our operations. Raising additional funds through collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties may require us to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates, or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us or our stockholders. 10 Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of Our Product Candidates Our lead product has only recently been approved in Europe and is still in development in the U. S. We are a pharmaceutical and medical device company with one commercially available product and another product candidate in various stages of development. In late 2011, we changed our strategy to primarily focus on the commercialization of Neutrolin in Europe through the CE Marking process and had elected to delay our other product candidates’ development until we had obtained CE Marking approval in Europe for Neutrolin. Our product candidates are currently at the following stages: ● CRMD003 (Neutrolin) - received CE Mark approval in Europe on July 5, 2013, with launch is begun in Germany late in the fourth quarter of 2013; ● CRMD003 (Neutrolin) – pre-IND meeting with the FDA held in November 2013; and ● CRMD004 - currently in the pre-clinical phase. Our product development efforts may not lead to commercially viable products for any of several reasons. For example, our product candidates may fail to be proven safe and effective in clinical trials, or we may have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue development efforts for our product candidates. Even if approved, our products may not be accepted in the marketplace. Neutrolin will require significant additional development, clinical trials, regulatory clearances and/or investment by us or our collaborators as we continue its commercialization, as will any of our other products. Specifically, we plan to expand marketing of Neutrolin in other foreign countries and to develop Neutrolin for sale in the U.S., which will take time and capital. We have entered into an agreement with human4farma to sell Neutrolin in Germany, which launched in Germany in the fourth quarter of 2013. Consequently, we will be dependent on human4farma for the success of sales in Germany. If human4farma does not perform for whatever reason, our business, prospects and results of operations will me materially adversely affected. Finding a suitable replacement organization could be difficult, which would further harm our business, prospects and results of operations. Successful development and commercialization of our products is uncertain. Our development and commercialization of current and future product candidates is subject to the risks of failure and delay inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products, including but not limited to the following: ● inability to produce positive data in pre-clinical and clinical trials; ● delays in product development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, or manufacturing; ● unplanned expenditures in product development, clinical testing, or manufacturing; ● failure to receive regulatory approvals; ● emergence of superior or equivalent products; ● inability to manufacture our product candidates on a commercial scale on our own, or in collaboration with third parties; and ● failure to achieve market acceptance. Because of these risks, our development efforts may not result in any commercially viable products. If a significant portion of these development efforts are not successfully completed, required regulatory approvals are not obtained or any approved products are not commercialized successfully, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially harmed. 11 Clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is uncertain. In order to obtain FDA or foreign approval to market a new drug or device product, we must demonstrate proof of safety and effectiveness in humans. Foreign regulations and requirements are similar to those of the FDA. To meet FDA requirements, we must conduct “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. The length of time may vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty, and intended use of the product candidate, and often can be several years or more per trial. Delays associated with products for which we are directly conducting clinical trials may cause us to incur additional operating expenses. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including, for example: ● inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of qualified materials under the FDA’s cGMP requirements for use in clinical trials; ● slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; ● failure to recruit a sufficient number of patients; ● modification of clinical trial protocols; ● changes in regulatory requirements for clinical trials; ● lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; ● emergence of unforeseen safety issues; ● delays, suspension, or termination of clinical trials due to the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site; and ● government or regulatory delays or “clinical holds” requiring suspension or termination of the trials. The results from early pre-clinical and clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of results to be obtained in later clinical trials. Accordingly, even if we obtain positive results from early pre-clinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in later clinical trials. Our clinical trials may be conducted in patients with serious or life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful or for whom no conventional treatment exists, and in some cases, our product is expected to be used in combination with approved therapies that themselves have significant adverse event profiles. During the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical events or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. We cannot ensure that safety issues will not arise with respect to our products in clinical development. Clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically significant safety and effectiveness to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for product candidates. As an example, in late 2011, we terminated development of CRMD001 due to disappointing data from our Phase 2 study. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the desired indications could harm the development of our product candidates. Such a failure could cause us to abandon a product candidate and could delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials would delay the filing of any NDA or any Premarket Approval Application, or PMA, with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. Any change in, or termination of, our clinical trials could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to comply with international regulatory requirements we could be subject to regulatory delays, fines or other penalties. Regulatory requirements in foreign countries for international sales of medical devices often vary from country to country. The occurrence and related impact of the following factors would harm our business: ● delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, foreign regulatory approvals or clearances; ● the loss of previously obtained approvals or clearances; or ● the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. The CE Mark is a mandatory conformity mark for products to be sold in the European Economic Area. Currently, 28 countries in Europe require products to bear CE Marking. To market in Europe, a product must first obtain the certifications necessary to affix the CE Mark. The CE Mark is an international symbol of adherence to the Medical Device Directives and the manufacturer’s declaration that the product complies with essential requirements. Compliance with these requirements is ascertained within a certified Quality Management System (QMS) pursuant to ISO 13485. In order to obtain and to maintain a CE Mark, a product must be in compliance with the applicable quality assurance provisions of the aforementioned ISO and obtain certification of its quality assurance systems by a recognized European Union notified body. We received CE Mark approval for Neutrolin on July 5, 2013. However, certain individual countries within the European Union require further approval by their national regulatory agencies. Failure to receive or maintain these other requisite approvals could prohibit us from marketing and selling Neutrolin in the entire European Economic Area or elsewhere. 12 We do not have, and may never obtain, the regulatory approvals we need to market our product candidates outside of the European Union. While we have received the CE Mark approval for Neutrolin in Europe, certain individual countries within the European Union require further approval by their national regulatory agencies. Failure to receive or maintain these other requisite approvals could prohibit us from marketing and selling Neutrolin in the entire European Economic Area. In addition, we will need regulatory approval to market and sell Neutrolin in foreign countries outside of Europe. In the United States, we have no current application for, and have not received the regulatory approvals required for, the commercial sale of any of our products. None of our product candidates has been determined to be safe and effective in the United States, and we have not submitted an NDA or PMA to the FDA for any product. It is possible that Neutrolin will not receive any further approval or that any of our other product candidates will be approved for marketing. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals, or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, would adversely affect the successful commercialization of Neutrolin or any other drugs or products that we or our partners develop, impose additional costs on us or our collaborators, diminish any competitive advantages that we or our partners may attain, and/or adversely affect our cash flow. Even if approved, our products will be subject to extensive post-approval regulation. Once a product is approved, numerous post-approval requirements apply in the United States and abroad. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet these post-approval requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. In addition, even if we comply with FDA, foreign and other requirements, new information regarding the safety or effectiveness of a product could lead the FDA or a foreign regulatory body to modify or withdraw product approval. The successful commercialization of our products will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payors. Sales of pharmaceutical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government health care programs and/or private health insurers, both in the U.S. and abroad. Without the financial support of these government or private third-party payors, the market for our products will be limited. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. Recent proposals to change the health care system in the United States have included measures that would limit or eliminate payments for medical products and services or subject the pricing of medical treatment products to government control. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors may not reimburse sales of our products or enable our collaborators to sell them at profitable prices. The failure to obtain or maintain reimbursement coverage for any of our products could materially harm our operations. Physicians and patients may not accept and use our products. Even with the CE Mark approval of Neutrolin, and even if we receive FDA or other foreign regulatory approval for Neutrolin or other product candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use our products. Acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including the following: ● perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drug or device product; ● cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; ● availability of reimbursement for our product from government or other healthcare payors; and ● effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect sales of Neutrolin to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of Neutrolin to find market acceptance would harm our business and would require us to seek additional financing. 13 Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Competition and technological change may make our product candidates and technologies less attractive or obsolete. We compete with established pharmaceutical and medical device companies that are pursuing other forms of treatment for the same indications we are pursuing and that have greater financial and other resources. Other companies may succeed in developing products earlier than we do, obtaining FDA or any other regulatory agency approval for products more rapidly, or developing products that are more effective than our product candidates. Research and development by others may render our technology or product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive, or result in processes, treatments or cures superior to any therapy we develop. We face competition from companies that internally develop competing technology or acquire competing technology from universities and other research institutions. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop competitive positions that may prevent, make futile, or limit our product commercialization efforts, which would result in a decrease in the revenue we would be able to derive from the sale of any products. There can be no assurance that any of our product candidates will be accepted by the marketplace as readily as these or other competing treatments. Furthermore, if our competitors’ products are approved before ours, it could be more difficult for us to obtain approval from the FDA or any other regulatory agency. Even if our products are successfully developed and approved for use by all governing regulatory bodies, there can be no assurance that physicians and patients will accept any of our products as a treatment of choice. Furthermore, the pharmaceutical and medical device industry is diverse, complex, and rapidly changing. By its nature, the business risks associated with the industry are numerous and significant. The effects of competition, intellectual property disputes, market acceptance, and FDA or other regulatory agency regulations preclude us from forecasting revenues or income with certainty or even confidence. We face the risk of product liability claims and the amount of insurance coverage we hold now or in the future may not be adequate to cover all liabilities we might incur. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the development of drugs. If the use of one or more of our or our collaborators’ drugs or devices harms people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by clinical trial participants, consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. We currently carry product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials. We cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that may result and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities we might incur. Our insurance covers bodily injury and property damage arising from our clinical trials, subject to industry-standard terms, conditions and exclusions. This coverage includes the sale of commercial products. We have expanded our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products due to the receipt of the CE Mark approval, but we may be unable to maintain such coverage or obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any other products approved for marketing. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. If we are sued for any injury allegedly caused by our or our collaborators’ products and do not have sufficient insurance coverage, our liability could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay the liability. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash and could cause the value of our capital stock to decrease. We may be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research, development and manufacturing activities and/or those of our third-party contractors may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local, as well as foreign, laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local, as well as foreign, laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products may require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare policy changes, including reimbursement policies for drugs and medical devices, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market acceptance and sales of Neutrolin or any other product candidates that we develop will depend on reimbursement policies and may be affected by health care reform measures in the United States and abroad. Government authorities and other third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for Neutrolin or any other product candidates that we develop. Also, we cannot be sure that the amount of reimbursement available, if any, will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Neutrolin or any other product candidates that we develop. 14 In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively, the Healthcare Reform Act, substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. We anticipate that if we obtain approval for our products, some of our revenue may be derived from U.S. government healthcare programs, including Medicare. Furthermore, beginning in 2011, the Healthcare Reform Act imposed a non-deductible excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell “branded prescription drugs,” which includes innovator drugs and biologics (excluding orphan drugs or generics) to U.S. government programs. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have an adverse effect on our industry generally and our products specifically. In addition to the Healthcare Reform Act, we expect that there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep healthcare costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for any products that are approved or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or other third-party payors or may increase the tax requirements for life sciences companies such as ours. While it is too early to predict what effect the Healthcare Reform Act or any future legislation or regulation will have on us, such laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Health administration authorities in countries other than the United States may not provide reimbursement for Neutrolin or any of our other product candidates at rates sufficient for us to achieve profitability, or at all. Like the United States, these countries could adopt health care reform proposals and could materially alter their government-sponsored health care programs by reducing reimbursement rates. Any reduction in reimbursement rates under Medicare or private insurers or foreign health care programs could negatively affect the pricing of our products. If we are not able to charge a sufficient amount for our products, then our margins and our profitability will be adversely affected. If we lose key management or scientific personnel, cannot recruit qualified employees, directors, officers, or other personnel or experience increases in compensation costs, our business may materially suffer. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff, specifically, Randy Milby, our former Chief Operating Officer and, effective January 1, 2013, our Chief Executive Officer, Steven Lefkowitz, a director and, effective August 15, 2013, our Interim Chief Financial Officer, and Dr. Antony Pfaffle, a director and, effective January 1, 2013, our Acting Chief Scientific Officer. We do not have any employment agreements with any of our officers. Even if we were to enter into an employment agreement, such an agreement cannot ensure our retention of any person covered by such agreement. Furthermore, our future success will also depend in part on our ability to identify, hire, and retain additional personnel. We experience intense competition for qualified personnel and may be unable to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. Moreover, our work force is located in the New Jersey metropolitan area, where competition for personnel with the scientific and technical skills that we seek is extremely high and is likely to remain high. Because of this competition, our compensation costs may increase significantly. In addition, we have only limited ability to prevent former employees from competing with us. Recent changes in our management may lead to instability and may negatively affect our business. In September 2011, John Houghton, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, left the Company and, in April 2012, Brian Lenz, our former Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer resigned. In May 2012, our board of directors appointed then director Richard Cohen to serve as our Interim Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Cohen resigned all positions on August 14, 2013, and the board of directors appointed director Steven Lefkowitz to serve as our Interim Chief Financial Officer, effective August 15, 2013. In May 2012, the board of directors also engaged Randy Milby to serve as our Chief Operating Officer. On December 21, 2012, we appointed Mr. Milby as our Chief Executive Officer, effective January 1, 2013. At that time, Mr. Milby’s responsibilities as our Chief Operating Officer terminated. Effective January 1, 2013, we also appointed our director Dr. Antony Pfaffle as our Acting Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Mark Klausner, our former part-time Chief Medical Officer, ceased employment on February 28, 2013. We cannot be certain that the changes in management will not negatively affect our business in the future or that additional changes in management and in the composition of our board of directors will not occur. Additionally, we may be negatively impacted by a lack of accounting expertise, lack of internal control processes (which include lack of segregation of duties for cash disbursements and cash reconciliations), lack of accuracy and timeliness of financial reporting as a result of the changes in our Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer and other positions. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business may be harmed. Over time, we expect to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in clinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing, and sales and marketing. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous pharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining such qualified personnel will be critical to our success. We may not successfully manage our growth. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations to commercialize Neutrolin and the effective management of any growth, which could place a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial resources. To manage this growth, we may need to expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems and hire and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business may be materially harmed. 15 Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we materially breach or default under any of our license agreements, the licensor party to such agreement will have the right to terminate the license agreement, which termination may materially harm our business. Our commercial success will depend in part on the maintenance of our license agreements. Each of our license agreements provides the licensor with a right to terminate the license agreement for our material breach or default under the agreement, including the failure to make any required milestone or other payments. Additionally, our license agreement with Dr. Hans-Dietrich Polaschegg (referred to herein as the Polaschegg License Agreement) provides for a right of termination for, among other things, our failure to make a product with respect to either of the licensed technologies available to the market within eight years after (i) the effective date of the Polaschegg License Agreement, which was January 20, 2008, or (ii) the priority date of any new patent, whichever is later. Our intellectual property licensed under the Polaschegg License Agreement serves as a basis for CRMD004, the gel formation of Neutrolin. Should the licensor under any of our license agreements exercise such a termination right, we would lose our right to the intellectual property under the respective license agreement, which loss may materially harm our business. If we and our licensors do not obtain protection for and successfully defend our respective intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts to develop competing products. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining further patent protection for our products and other technologies and successfully defending any patents that we currently have or will obtain against third-party challenges. The patents most material to our business are as follows: ● U.S. Registration No. 7,696,182 (expiring in May 2025) - use of Neutrolin for preventing infection and maintenance of catheter patency in hemodialysis catheters (for CRMD003); ● U.S. Registration No. 6,166,007 (expiring May 2019) - a method of inhibiting or preventing infection and blood coagulation at a medical prosthetic device (for CRMD003); ● European Registration No. 1442753 (expiring February 2023) - use of a thixotropic gel as a catheter locking composition, and method of locking a catheter (for CRMD004); and ● European Patent EP 1 814 562 B1 (expiring October 12, 2025), a low heparin catheter lock solution for maintaining and preventing infection in a hemodialysis catheter. We are currently seeking further patent protection for our compounds and methods of treating diseases. However, the patent process is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting our products by obtaining and defending patents. These risks and uncertainties include the following: ● patents that may be issued or licensed may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or otherwise may not provide any competitive advantage; ● our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than we have and many of which have made significant investments in competing technologies, may seek, or may already have obtained, patents that will limit, interfere with, or eliminate our ability to make, use, and sell our potential products either in the United States or in international markets; ● there may be significant pressure on the United States government and other international governmental bodies to limit the scope of patent protection both inside and outside the United States for treatments that prove successful as a matter of public policy regarding worldwide health concerns; and ● countries other than the United States may have less restrictive patent laws than those upheld by United States courts, allowing foreign competitors the ability to exploit these laws to create, develop, and market competing products. In addition, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, and patent offices in other jurisdictions have often required that patent applications concerning pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology-related inventions be limited or narrowed substantially to cover only the specific innovations exemplified in the patent application, thereby limiting the scope of protection against competitive challenges. Thus, even if we or our licensors are able to obtain patents, the patents may be substantially narrower than anticipated. The patent applications in our patent portfolio are exclusively licensed to us. To support our patent strategy, we have engaged in a review of patentability and freedom to operate issues, including performing certain searches. However, patentability and freedom to operate issues are inherently complex, and we cannot provide assurances that a relevant patent office and/or relevant court will agree with our conclusions regarding patentability issues or with our conclusions regarding freedom to operate issues, which can involve subtle issues of claim interpretation and/or claim liability. Furthermore, we may not be aware of all patents, published applications or published literature that may affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our product candidates, preventing the patentability of our product candidates to us or our licensors, or covering the same or similar technologies that may invalidate our patents, limit the scope of our future patent claims or adversely affect our ability to market our product candidates. In addition to patents, we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Although we take measures to protect this information by entering into confidentiality and inventions agreements with our employees, scientific advisors, consultants, and collaborators, we cannot provide any assurances that these agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to protect ourselves from the harmful effects of disclosure if they are breached, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. If any of these events occurs, or we otherwise lose protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, the value of our intellectual property may be greatly reduced. 16 Intellectual property disputes could require us to spend time and money to address such disputes and could limit our intellectual property rights. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We may become subject to infringement or invalidity claims or litigation arising out of patents and pending applications of our competitors, or additional proceedings initiated by third parties or the PTO or applicable foreign bodies to reexamine the patentability of our licensed or owned patents. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, PTO or foreign proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings are costly and time-consuming to pursue, and their outcome is uncertain. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our issued patents, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, or to determine the enforceability, scope, and validity of the proprietary rights of others. An adverse determination in litigation or PTO or foreign proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to obtain licenses from third parties, restrict or prevent us from selling our products in certain markets, or invalidate or render unenforceable our licensed or owned patents. Although patent and intellectual property disputes might be settled through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include our paying large fixed payments and ongoing royalties. Furthermore, the necessary licenses may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. In February 2007, Geistlich Söhne AG für Chemische Industrie, Switzerland, or Geistlich, brought an action against the Sodemann patent covering our Neutrolin® product candidate which is owned by ND Partners, LLC and licensed to us pursuant to the License and Assignment Agreement between us and ND Partners LLC. The action that was brought against the Sodemann patent in Germany at the Board of the European Patent Office opposition division was for lack of inventiveness in the use of citric acid and a pH value in the range of 4.5 to 6.5 with having the aim to provide an alternative lock solution through having improved anticoagulant characteristics compared to the lock solutions described in the Lehner patent. The Board of the European Patent Office opposition division rejected the opposition by Geistlich. On August 27, 2008, Geistlich appealed the court's ruling, alleging the same arguments as presented during the opposition proceedings. We filed a response to the appeal of Geistlich on March 25, 2009 where we requested a dismissal of the appeal and to maintain the patent as granted. As of March 27, 2014, no further petitions have been filed by ND Partners or Geistlich. On October 10, 2012, we became aware that the Board of Appeals of the European Patent Office issued, on September 4, 2012, a summons for oral proceedings. On November 28, 2012, the Board of Appeals of the European Patent Office held oral proceedings and verbally upheld the Sodemann patent covering Neutrolin®, but remanded the proceeding to the lower court to consider restricting certain of the Sodemann patent claims. We received the Appeals Board final written decision on March 28, 2013 which was consistent with the oral proceedings. In a letter dated September 30, 2013, we were notified that the opposition division of the European Patent Office reopened the proceedings before the first instance again, and has given their preliminary non-binding opinion that the patent as amended during the appeal proceedings fulfils the requirements of Clarity, Novelty, and Inventive Step, and invited the parties to provide their comments and/or requests by February 10, 2014. We filed our response on February 3, 2014 to request that the patent be maintained as amended during the appeal proceedings. Geistlich did not provide any filing by February 10, 2014; however, the Board of the European Patent Office opposition division has granted Geistlich an extension to respond by the end of July 2014 because its representative did not receive the September 30, 2013 letter due to a change of address. We intend to continue to vigorously defend the patent in a restricted form. However, we can provide no assurances regarding the outcome of this matter. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products and forced to pay damages and defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to do one or more of the following: ● obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; ● abandon an infringing product candidate; ● redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; ● stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; ● pay damages; or ● defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our financial and management resources. 17 Risks Related to Dependence on Third Parties If we are not able to develop and maintain collaborative marketing relationships with licensees or partners, or create an effective sales, marketing, and distribution capability, we may be unable to market our products or market them successfully. Our business strategy for Neutrolin relies on collaborating with larger firms with experience in marketing and selling medical devices and pharmaceutical products; for other products we may also rely on such marketing collaborations or out-licensing or our product candidates. Specifically, for Neutrolin, we have entered into an agreement with human4farma to market Neutrolin, initially in Germany and letters of intent with two distributors in the Middle East (Saudia Arabia, Oman and Yemen as of the date of this report). Assuming we receive applicable regulatory approval for other markets, we plan to enter into distribution agreements with one or more third parties for the sale of Neutrolin in various European, Middle East and other markets. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully establish marketing, sales, or distribution relationships, that such relationships, if established, such as with human4farma, will be maintained and/or be successful, or that we will be successful in gaining market acceptance for our products. To the extent that we enter into any marketing, sales, or distribution arrangements with third parties, our product revenues will be lower than if we marketed and sold our products directly, and any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third-parties. If we are unable to establish and maintain such third-party sales and marketing relationships, or choose not to do so, we will have to establish our own in-house capabilities. We currently have no sales, marketing, or distribution infrastructure. To market any of our products directly, we would need to develop a marketing, sales, and distribution force that has both technical expertise and the ability to support a distribution capability. The establishment of a marketing, sales, and distribution capability would take time and significantly increase our costs, possibly requiring substantial additional capital. In addition, there is intense competition for proficient sales and marketing personnel, and we may not be able to attract individuals who have the qualifications necessary to market, sell, and distribute our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish internal marketing, sales, or distribution capabilities. If we are unable to, or choose not to establish these capabilities, or if the capabilities we establish are not sufficient to meet our needs, we will be required to establish collaborative marketing, sales, or distribution relationships with third parties, which we might not be able to do on acceptable terms or at all. We currently have no internal marketing and sales organization and have no experience as a company in marketing medical devices or drug products. If we are unable to establish our own marketing and sales capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties, to market and sell our products after they are approved, we may not be able to generate product revenues. We do not have an internal sales organization for the marketing, sales and distribution of any drug products. In order to commercialize any products, we must develop these capabilities on our own or make arrangements with third parties for the marketing, sales and distribution of our products. The establishment and development of our own sales force would be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully develop this capability. As a result, we may seek one or more third party organizations to handle some or all of the sales and marketing of Neutrolin, which we have done with human4farma for the initial launch in Germany and letters of intent with two distributors in the Middle East (Saudia Arabia, Oman and Yemen as of the date of this report). However, we may not be able to enter into or maintain arrangements with third parties to sell Neutrolin on favorable terms or at all. In the event we are unable to develop our own marketing and sales force or collaborate with a third-party marketing and sales organization, we would not be able to commercialize Neutrolin or any other product candidates that we develop, which would negatively impact our ability to generate product revenues. Further, whether we commercialize products on our own or rely on a third party to do so, our ability to generate revenue will be dependent on the effectiveness of the sales force. In addition, to the extent we rely on third parties to commercialize our approved products, we will likely receive less revenues than if we commercialized these products ourselves. We have entered into an agreement with human4farma to market Neutrolin in Germany. Consequently, we will be dependent on human4farma for the success of sales in Germany and any continued success of the marketing and sales of Neutrolin in Germany. If human4farma does not perform for whatever reason, our business, prospects and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Finding a replacement organization could be difficult, which would further harm our business, prospects and results of operations. If we or our collaborators are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities or are unable to obtain regulatory approvals for a manufacturing facility, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and we may lose potential revenues. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates. All of our manufacturing processes currently are, and we expect them to continue to be, outsourced to third parties. Specifically, we will rely on one or more manufacturers to supply us and/or our distribution partners with commercial quantities of Neutrolin. If, for any reason, we become unable to rely on our current sources for the manufacture of Neutrolin or any other product candidates or for active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, either for clinical trials or for commercial quantities, then we would need to identify and contract with additional or replacement third-party manufacturers to manufacture compounds for pre-clinical, clinical, and commercial purposes. We may not be successful in identifying such additional or replacement third-party manufacturers, or in negotiating acceptable terms with any that we do identify. Such third-party manufacturers must receive FDA or applicable foreign approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial product, and any that are identified may not receive such approval or may fail to maintain such approval. In addition, we may be in competition with other companies for access to these manufacturers’ facilities and may be subject to delays in manufacturing if the manufacturers give other clients higher priority than they give to us. If we are unable to secure and maintain third-party manufacturing capacity, the development and sales of our products and our financial performance may be materially affected. Before we could begin to commercially manufacture our product candidates on our own, we must obtain regulatory approval of the manufacturing facility and process. The manufacture of drugs for clinical and commercial purposes must comply with cGMP and applicable non-U.S. regulatory requirements. The cGMP requirements govern quality control and documentation policies and procedures. Complying with cGMP and non-U.S. regulatory requirements would require that we expend time, money, and effort in production, recordkeeping, and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. We would also have to pass a pre-approval inspection prior to FDA or non-U.S. regulatory agency approval. Failure to pass a pre-approval inspection may significantly delay regulatory approval of our products. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 18 Corporate and academic collaborators may take actions that delay, prevent, or undermine the success of our products. Our operating and financial strategy for the development, clinical testing, manufacture, and commercialization of our product candidates is heavily dependent on our entering into collaborations with corporations, academic institutions, licensors, licensees, and other parties. Our current strategy assumes that we will successfully establish and maintain these collaborations or similar relationships. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful establishing or maintaining such collaborations. Some of our existing collaborations, such as our licensing agreements, are, and future collaborations may be, terminable at the sole discretion of the collaborator in certain circumstances. Replacement collaborators might not be available on attractive terms, or at all. In addition, the activities of any collaborator will not be within our control and may not be within our power to influence. There can be no assurance that any collaborator will perform its obligations to our satisfaction or at all, that we will derive any revenue or profits from such collaborations, or that any collaborator will not compete with us. If any collaboration is not pursued, we may require substantially greater capital to undertake on our own the development and marketing of our product candidates and may not be able to develop and market such products successfully, if at all. In addition, a lack of development and marketing collaborations may lead to significant delays in introducing product candidates into certain markets and/or reduced sales of products in such markets. Data provided by collaborators and others upon which we rely that has not been independently verified could turn out to be false, misleading, or incomplete. We rely on third-party vendors, scientists, and collaborators to provide us with significant data and other information related to our projects, clinical trials, and business. If such third parties provide inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete data, our business, prospects, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to our limited finance staff and the resulting ineffective management review over financial reporting, coupled with increasingly complex accounting treatments associated with our financing activities and European expansion. We have taken initial measures to remediate this weakness by increasing internal review processes, in addition to the previously established accounting oversight committee, which is comprised of members of our senior management and third party GAAP advisor. We expect to be able to add to our finance staff in 2014 as we build our infrastructure, which we believe will remediate this weakness. However, we cannot be assured that this weakness will be remediated or that other material weaknesses will not be discovered. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. Internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give a reasonable assurance that they are effective to achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all of our possible future control issues will be detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in our decision making can be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns can occur because of simple human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error could occur and not be detected. This and any future failures could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and stock price. Our stock price has fluctuated considerably and is likely to remain volatile, in part due to the limited market for our common stock and you could lose all or a part of your investment. During the period from the completion of our initial public offering, or IPO, on March 30, 2010 through March 14, 2014, the high and low sales prices for our common stock were $4.00 and $0.15, respectively. There is a limited public market for our common stock and we cannot provide assurances that an active trading market will develop. As a result of low trading volume in our common stock, the purchase or sale of a relatively small number of shares could result in significant share price fluctuations. 19 Additionally, the market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● our need for additional capital; ● the receipt of additional regulatory approvals for Neutrolin; ● results of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors; ● our entry into or the loss of a significant collaboration; ● regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries, including changes in the healthcare payment systems; ● changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts relating to our common stock; ● announcements by our competitors of significant developments, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● changes in key personnel; ● variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; ● market conditions in the pharmaceutical and medical device sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; ● general economic, industry and market conditions; ● developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; ● future sales or anticipated sales of our securities by us or our stockholders; and ● any other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the stock of pharmaceutical and medical device companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. For these reasons and others, you should consider an investment in our securities as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the value of your investment. A significant number of additional shares of our common stock may be issued at a later date, and their sale could depress the market price of our common stock. As of March 14, 2014, we had outstanding the following securities that are convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock: ● 227,273 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of a warrant issued in July 2013 with an exercise price of $1.50 that expire on July 30, 2018; ● 454,546 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock; ● 1,000,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued in May 2013 with an exercise price of $1.00 per share that expire on May 30, 2019; ● warrants for 125,000 shares issued to ND Partners in April 2013 in connection with the amendment to the license and assignment agreement with an exercise price of $1.50 per share that expire on April 11, 2018; ● warrants for 4,043,569 shares of our common stock issued in connection with our IPO with an exercise price of $3.4375 per share that expire on March 24, 2015; ● a warrant to purchase 2,406 units with an exercise price of $7.80 per unit issued to the underwriters of our IPO that, if exercised, would result in the issuance of an additional 4,812 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 2,406 shares of common stock with an exercise price of $3.90 that expire on March 24, 2015; ● warrants for 503,034 shares of our common stock issued in our 2009 private placement, which warrants have an exercise price of $3.4375 per share and expire on October 29, 2014; 20 ● warrants for 18,250 shares of common stock with an exercise price of $7.84 per share issued to co-placement agents in connection with our previous convertible note financings; ● options to purchase an aggregate of 1,594,630 shares of our common stock issued to our officers, directors, employees and non-employee consultants under our Amended and Restated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2006 Stock Plan, with a weighted average exercise price of $1.27 per share; ● options to purchase an aggregate of 2,484,000 shares of our common stock issued to our officers, directors and non-employee consultants under our 2013 Stock Plan, with a weighted average exercise price of $1.29 per share; ● warrants issued to investors in our 2012 private placement to purchase an aggregate of 1,712,500 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $0.40 per share, of which 1,687,500 expire on September 20, 2017 and 25,000 expire on November 13, 2017; ● warrants issued to the placement agent for our 2012 private placement to purchase an aggregate of 795 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $0.40 per share, which expire on September 20, 2017; ● 400,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of a warrant issued on February 19, 2013 with an exercise price of $1.50 that expire on February 19, 2018; ● 1,500,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants with an exercise price of $1.25 that expire on October 22, 2019; ● 1,000,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants with an exercise price of $1.25 that expire on January 8, 2020; ● 1,500,000 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series C-2 Preferred Stock; ● 2,000,000 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series C-3 Preferred Stock; ● 1,148,000 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series D Preferred Stock; ● 1,104,280 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series E Preferred Stock; and ● 1,036,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants issued in March 2014 with an exercise price of $3.10 per shares that expire on September 9, 2019. The possibility of the issuance of these shares, as well as the actual sale of such shares, could substantially reduce the market price for our common stock and impede our ability to obtain future financing. We will need additional financing to fund our activities in the future, which likely will dilute our stockholders. We anticipate that we will incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we believe we will require substantial funds in the future to support our operations. We expect to seek equity or debt financings in the future to fund our operations. The issuance of additional equity securities, or convertible debt or other derivative securities, likely will dilute some if not all of our then existing stockholders, depending on the financing terms. Future sales and issuances of our equity securities or rights to purchase our equity securities, including pursuant to equity incentive plans, would result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in more than one transaction, investors may be further diluted by subsequent sales. Such sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights superior to existing stockholders. Pursuant to our 2006 Stock Plan, our Board of Directors is authorized to award up to a total of 2,300,000 shares of common stock or options to purchase shares of common stock to our officers, directors, employees and non-employee consultants. As of March 14, 2014, options to purchase 1,594,630 shares of common stock issued under our 2006 Stock Plan at a weighted average exercise price of $1.27 per share, and options to purchase 2,484,000 shares of common stock issued under our 2013 Stock Plan at a weighted average exercise price of $1.29 per share were outstanding. In addition, at March 14, 2014, there were outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 10,571,233 shares of our common stock at prices ranging from $0.40 to $7.84, and shares of our outstanding Series B, C-2, C-3, D and E preferred stock convertible into an aggregate of 6,206,826 shares of our common stock. Stockholders will experience dilution in the event that additional shares of common stock are issued under our 2006 Stock Plan or 2013 Stock Plan, or options issued under our 2006 Stock Plan or 2013 Stock Plan are exercised, or any warrants are exercised for, or preferred stock shares are converted to, common stock. 21 Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and our Amended and Restated Bylaws, as well as provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or DGCL, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include the following: ● authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; ● prohibiting our stockholders from fixing the number of our directors; and ● establishing advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our Board of Directors. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by the board of directors. This provision could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing someone from acquiring us or merging with us, whether or not it is desired by, or beneficial to, our stockholders. Any provision of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or Amended and Restated Bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. If we fail to comply with the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT, it may result in a delisting of our common stock from the exchange. Our common stock is currently listed for trading on the NYSE MKT, and the continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE MKT is subject to our compliance with a number of listing standards. These listing standards include the requirement for avoiding sustained losses and maintaining a minimum level of stockholders’ equity. On April 20, 2012, and April 5, 2013, the NYSE MKT notified us that we were not in compliance with certain listing standards relating to our financial condition and stockholders’ equity, respectively, and we had to submit a plan to regain compliance with the listing standards, which required and received several extensions. We regained compliance on October 20, 2013. We will need to satisfy NYSE MKT Rule 1003(a)(ii) by having a minimum of $4.0 million in stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2013 and maintain that amount during 2014. We anticipated being in compliance on December 31, 2013, however, due to complex derivative accounting and equity financing transactions that closed in January and March of 2014, we were not in compliance at December 31, 2013. Based on the equity financing transactions that closed in January and March of 2014, conversions of preferred stock to common stock, stock option exercises and the reclassification of derivative liabilities to equity accounts, we believe we now have stockholders’ equity in excess of $4 million. There can be no assurance that we will meet the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT. If our common stock were no longer listed on the NYSE MKT, investors might only be able to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board ® or in the Pink Sheets ® (a quotation medium operated by Pink Sheets LLC). This would impair the liquidity of our common stock not only in the number of shares that could be bought and sold at a given price, which might be depressed by the relative illiquidity, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in media coverage. Because the average daily trading volume of our common stock has been low historically, the ability to sell our shares in the secondary trading market may be limited. Because the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the NYSE MKT has been low historically, the liquidity of our common stock may be impaired. As a result, prices for shares of our common stock may be lower than might otherwise prevail if the average daily trading volume of our common stock was higher. The average daily trading volume of our common stock may be low relative to the stocks of other exchange-listed companies, which could limit investors’ ability to sell shares in the secondary trading market. Penny stock regulations may impose certain restrictions on marketability of our securities. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, our common stock is subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by such rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Broker-dealers must wait two business days after providing buyers with disclosure materials regarding a security before effecting a transaction in such security. Consequently, the “penny stock” rules restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and affect the ability of investors to sell our securities in the secondary market and the price at which such purchasers can sell any such securities, thereby affecting the liquidity of the market for our common stock. 22 Stockholders should be aware that, according to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: ● control of the market for the security by one or more broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; ● manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; ● “boiler room” practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; ● excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and ● the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns on our common stock will be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never declared dividends on our common stock, and currently do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Pursuant to the terms of our Series D and E Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock, we may not declare or pay any dividends or make any distributions on any of our shares or other equity securities as long as any of those preferred shares remain outstanding. We currently expect to retain future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, our overall financial condition and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Any return to holders of our common stock will be limited to the value of their common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 