Risk Factors. Environmental A description of our environmental activities is included in Part II, Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 5. Employees We do not have any employees. We are managed and operated by the directors and officers of our general partner, El Paso Pipeline GP Company, L.L.C., a subsidiary of El Paso. Additionally, WIC is operated by CIG, and SNG and CIG are operated by El Paso and its affiliates. We have an omnibus agreement with El Paso and its affiliates under which we reimburse El Paso for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit, for direct expenses incurred by El Paso on our behalf and for expenses allocated to us as a result of us being a public entity. A further discussion of our affiliate transactions is included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 7. Available Information Our website is http://www.eppipelinepartners.com. We make available, free of charge on or through our website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as is reasonably possible after these reports are filed with the SEC. Information about each of our Board members, as well as each of our Board’s standing committee charters, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct are also available, free of charge, through our website. Information contained on our website is not part of this report. 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions or beliefs that we believe to be reasonable; however assumed facts almost always vary from the actual results, and differences between assumed facts and actual results can be material, depending upon the circumstances. Where, based on assumptions, we or our management express an expectation or belief as to future results, that expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and is believed to have a reasonable basis. We cannot assure you, however, that the stated expectation or belief will occur, be achieved or accomplished. The words “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate” and similar expressions will generally identify forward-looking statements. All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements that may accompany such forward-looking statements. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. With this in mind, you should consider the risks discussed elsewhere in this report and other documents we file with the SEC from time to time and the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks referred to herein refer to risks inherent to both our wholly-owned operations through WIC and our general partner interests in CIG and SNG. Risks Inherent in Our Business Our success depends on factors beyond our control. The results of operations of our transportation and storage operations are impacted by the volumes of natural gas we transport or store for third parties and the prices we are able to charge for doing so. The volumes of natural gas we are able to transport and store depends on the actions of those third parties, and is beyond our control. Further, the following factors, most of which are also beyond our control, may unfavorably impact our ability to maintain or increase current throughput or to remarket unsubscribed capacity: • service area competition; • changes in regulation and actions of regulatory bodies; • weather conditions that impact throughput and storage levels; • price competition; • drilling activity and decreased availability of conventional gas supply sources and the availability and timing of other natural gas sources such as LNG; • continued development of additional sources of gas supply that can be accessed; • decreased natural gas demand due to various factors, including increases in prices and the availability or increased demand of alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric power, solar, wind, nuclear energy, coal and fuel oil; 8 Table of Contents We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units at the minimum quarterly distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the full amount of our minimum quarterly distribution rate of $0.28750 per unit, or $1.15 per unit per year. Under this circumstance, we may be required to borrow under our $750 million revolving credit facility to pay the annualized minimum quarterly distribution. As of December 31, 2007, $455 million has been borrowed under this facility. Under our cash distribution policy, the amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash generated from our operations and not on reported net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Our cash flows which will fluctuate based on, among other things: • the rates we charge and the volumes under contract for our transportation and storage services; • the quantities of natural gas available for transport and the demand for natural gas; • the price of natural gas; • legislative or regulatory action affecting demand for and supply of natural gas, and the rates we are allowed to charge in relation to our operating costs; • the level of our operating and maintenance and general and administrative costs; and • the creditworthiness of our shippers. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • our debt service requirements, retirement of debt and other liabilities; • fluctuations in working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • the amount of cash distributed to us by the entities in which we own a minority interest; • restrictions on distributions contained in debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner, which may include reserves for tariff rates that are subject to refund. We own 10 percent minority interests in two of our three primary assets, with the remaining 90 percent interest in each of those assets owned by El Paso or its other subsidiaries. As a result, we will be unable to control the amount of cash we will receive from those operations and we could be required to contribute significant cash to fund our share of their operations. If we fail to make these contributions, we will be subject to specified penalties. Our inability to control the operations of each of CIG, SNG and their respective subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates may mean that we do not receive the amount of cash we expect to be distributed to us. We expect our interests in CIG and SNG in the aggregate to generate in excess of 30 percent of the cash we distribute in 2008 and, accordingly, our performance is substantially dependent on their distributions to us. Since we only have a 10 percent interest in each of SNG and CIG, we are unable to control ongoing operational and investment decisions at these entities, which may adversely affect the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to us, including: 9 Table of Contents • decisions with respect to incurrence of expenses and distributions to us; • establishing reserves for working capital, maintenance capital expenditures, environmental matters and legal and rate proceedings; • incurring additional indebtedness and principal and interest payments; and • requiring us to make additional capital contributions to CIG and SNG to fund working capital, maintenance capital and expansion capital expenditures which could be material. In the event we elect not to make a required capital contribution or are unable to do so, our partnership interest could be diluted or it could affect the receipt of distributions until we have forgone distributions equal to our portion of the capital call plus a specified premium. Our natural gas transportation and storage systems are subject to regulation by agencies, including the FERC, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to establish transportation and storage rates that would allow recovery of the full cost of operating these pipeline systems and storage facilities, including a reasonable return, and our ability to make distributions. Our interstate natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Specifically, our natural gas pipeline systems and our storage facilities and related assets are subject to regulation by the FERC, the United States Department of Transportation, the United States Department of Interior, and various state and local regulatory agencies. Regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. Federal regulation extends to such matters as: • rates, operating terms and conditions of service; • the types of services we may offer to our customers; • the contracts for service entered into with our customers; • construction and abandonment of new facilities; • the integrity and safety of our pipeline systems and related operations; • acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; • accounts and records; and • relationships with affiliated companies involved in certain aspects of the natural gas business. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation, to revoke existing certificate authority and to order disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. Finally, we do not know how future regulations will impact the operation of our natural gas transportation and storage businesses or the effect such regulations could have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and thus our ability to make distributions. The outcome of certain proceedings involving FERC policy statements is uncertain and could affect the rate of return on our equity we are allowed to recover through rates and the amount of any allowance (if any) our systems can include for income taxes in establishing their rates for service, which would in turn impact our revenues and/or equity earnings. In setting authorized rates of return, the FERC uses a discounted cash flow model that incorporates the use of proxy groups to develop a range of reasonable returns earned on equity interests in companies with corresponding risks. The FERC then assigns a rate of return on equity within that range to reflect specific risks of that pipeline when compared to the proxy group companies. In recent decisions, the FERC has utilized a proxy group of companies that includes local distribution companies that are not faced with as much competition or risk as interstate pipelines. The inclusion of these lower risk companies may create downward pressure on tariff rates when subjected to review by the FERC in future rate proceedings. Pursuant to the FERC’s jurisdiction over rates, existing rates may be challenged by complaint and proposed rate increases may be challenged by protest. A successful complaint or protest against our rates could have an adverse impact on our revenues. In addition, in July 2007, the FERC issued a 10 Table of Contents proposed policy statement addressing the issue of the proxy groups it will use to decide the return on equity of natural gas pipelines. The proposed policy statement describes the FERC’s intention to allow the use of master limited partnerships in proxy groups, with certain restrictions that could lower the return that would otherwise be allowed. The FERC has requested comments on the proposed policy. The FERC currently allows publicly traded partnerships to include in their cost-of-service an income tax allowance. Any changes to FERC’s treatment of income tax allowances in cost-of-service and to potential adjustment in a future rate case of our pipelines’ respective equity rates of return that underlie their recourse rates may cause their recourse rates to be set at a level that is different, and in some instances lower than the level otherwise in effect. Certain of our systems’ transportation services are subject to long-term, fixed-price “negotiated rate” contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, our costs could exceed our revenues received under such contracts. It is possible that costs to perform services under “negotiated rate” contracts will exceed the negotiated rates. If this occurs, it could decrease the cash flow realized by WIC, CIG and SNG and, therefore, the cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. Under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate” which may be above or below the FERC regulated “recourse rate” for that service, and that contract must be filed and accepted by FERC. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 48 percent of WIC’s contracted firm capacity rights, and approximately 9 percent of CIG’s and 9 percent of SNG’s contracted firm capacity rights were committed under such “negotiated rate” contracts. These “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject to adjustment for increased costs which could be produced by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. Any shortfall of revenue, representing the difference between “recourse rates” (if higher) and negotiated rates, under current FERC policy is generally not recoverable from other shippers. Increased competition from alternative natural gas transportation and storage options and alternative fuel sources could have a significant financial impact on us. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by activities of other interstate and intrastate pipelines and storage facilities that may expand or construct competing transportation and storage systems. In addition, future pipeline transportation and storage capacity could be constructed in excess of actual demand and with lower fuel requirements, operating and maintenance costs than our facilities, which could reduce the demand for and the rates that we receive for our services in particular areas. Further, natural gas also competes with other forms of energy available to our customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. We also compete as it relates to rates, terms of service, access to natural gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. FERC’s policies promoting competition may cause us to experience some “turnback” of firm capacity as existing agreements with customers expire. If WIC, CIG or SNG are unable to remarket this capacity or can remarket it only at substantially discounted rates compared to previous contracts, they may have to bear the costs associated with the turned back capacity. Increased competition could also reduce the volumes of natural gas transported or stored or, in cases where we do not have long-term fixed rate contracts, could force us to lower our rates. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions. Competition from pipelines, including the Rockies Express pipeline, that may be able to provide our shippers with capacity at a lower price could cause us to reduce our rates or otherwise reduce our revenues. We face competition from other pipelines that may be able to provide our shippers with capacity on a more 11 Table of Contents competitive basis or access to consuming markets that would pay a higher price for the shippers’ gas. For example, WIC’s most direct competitor in the U.S. Rocky Mountain region is the Rockies Express Pipeline owned by Rockies Express Pipeline LLC. The Rockies Express Pipeline could result in significant downward pressure on natural gas transportation prices in the U.S. Rocky Mountain region. The Rockies Express Pipeline could also cause prices in U.S. Rocky Mountain natural gas supply basins to increase while prices in WIC’s and CIG’s downstream markets may not increase commensurately, making it more difficult for us to charge full recourse rates under future contracts. In addition, WIC and CIG are competitors for lateral expansions to various U.S. Rocky Mountain supply basins. Both WIC and CIG have supply laterals in the Powder River Basin and the Uinta Basin. Since the WIC mainline system and the Wyoming portion of the CIG system parallel each other, a supply lateral can effectively interconnect with either system. WIC and CIG may compete for the same business opportunities. Given that CIG will operate WIC and El Paso will utilize the same personnel to operate both systems, El Paso may in some circumstances favor CIG or other of its affiliates over WIC when directing business opportunities at its sole discretion. Such determinations could benefit El Paso and disadvantage us since we only own 10 percent of CIG, while El Paso owns the remaining 90 percent, and we own 100 percent of WIC. An increase in competition in our key markets could arise from new ventures or expanded operations from existing competitors. As a result, significant competition from the Rockies Express Pipeline, other third-party competitors and CIG could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Any significant decrease in supplies of natural gas in our areas of operation could adversely affect our business and operating results and reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. All of our businesses are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production and reserves. Low prices for natural gas or regulatory limitations could adversely affect development of additional reserves and production that are accessible by our pipeline and storage assets. Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to our pipelines will naturally decline over time without development of additional reserves. Additionally, the amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. Accordingly, to maintain or increase the volume of natural gas transported, or throughput, on our pipelines and cash flows associated with the transportation of gas, our customers must continually obtain new supplies of natural gas. For example, if expected increases of natural gas supplies in the U.S. Rocky Mountain region do not materialize or there is a decline in supply from such producing region to our interstate pipelines that is not replaced with new supplies, our operating results and our cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. The revenues of our pipeline businesses are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically. Substantially all of our systems’ revenues are generated under contracts which expire periodically and must be renegotiated and extended or replaced. As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average contract life based on contracted revenues is ten years for WIC, five years for CIG and six years for SNG. If we or El Paso are unable to extend or replace these contracts when they expire or renegotiate contract terms as favorable as the existing contracts, we could suffer a material reduction in our revenues, earnings and cash flows. In particular, our ability to extend and replace contracts on terms comparable to prior contracts or on any terms at all, could be adversely affected by factors, including: 12 Table of Contents • competition by other pipelines, including the change in rates or upstream supply of existing pipeline competitors, as well as the proposed construction by other companies of additional pipeline capacity or LNG terminals in markets served by our interstate pipelines; • changes in state regulation of local distribution companies, which may cause them to negotiate short-term contracts or turn back their capacity when their contracts expire; • reduced demand and market conditions in the areas we serve; • the availability of alternative energy sources or natural gas supply points; and • regulatory actions. Fluctuations in energy commodity prices could adversely affect our business. Revenues generated by our transportation and storage contracts depend on volumes and rates, both of which can be affected by the price of natural gas. Increased natural gas prices could result in a reduction of the volumes transported by our customers, including power companies that may not dispatch natural gas-fired power plants if natural gas prices increase. Increased prices could also result in industrial plant shutdowns or load losses to competitive fuels as well as local distribution companies’ loss of customer base. On the other hand, decreased natural gas prices could result in reduced development of additional gas supplies and in the volume of natural gas available for transportation and storage through our system. Pricing volatility may, in some cases for CIG or WIC, impact the value of under or over recoveries of retained natural gas, as well as imbalances, cashouts and system encroachments. We obtain in-kind fuel reimbursements from shippers in accordance with each individual tariff or applicable contract terms. We revalue our natural gas imbalances and other gas owed to shippers (such as excess fuel retention) to an index price and periodically settle these obligations in cash or in-kind pursuant to each individual tariff or balancing contract. Currently, the CIG and WIC tariffs provide that the volumetric difference between fuel retained and fuel burned will be flowed-through or charged to shippers. The CIG tariff provides that all liquid revenue proceeds, including those proceeds associated with CIG’s processing plants, are used to reimburse shrinkage or other system fuel and lost-or-unaccounted-for costs and variations in liquid revenues and variations in shrinkage volumes are included in the reconciliation of retained fuel and burned fuel. CIG must purchase gas volumes from time to time due, in part, to such shrinkage associated with liquid production and such expenses vary with both price and quantity. On the SNG system, we retain a fixed percentage of the natural gas received for transportation and storage as provided in SNG’s tariff. This retained natural gas is used as fuel and to replace lost and unaccounted for natural gas. As calculated in a manner set forth in SNG’s tariff, any revenues generated from any excess natural gas retained and not burned are shared with SNG’s customers on an annual basis. Any under recoveries are the responsibility of SNG. If natural gas prices in the supply basins connected to our pipeline system are higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions, our ability to compete with other transporters may be negatively impacted on a short-term basis, as well as with respect to our long-term recontracting activities. Furthermore, fluctuations in pricing between supply sources and market areas could negatively impact our transportation revenues. As a result, significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Fluctuations in energy prices are caused by a number of factors, including: • regional, domestic and international supply and demand; • availability and adequacy of transportation facilities; • energy legislation; • federal and state taxes, if any, on the transportation and storage of natural gas; 13 Table of Contents • abundance of supplies of alternative energy sources; and • political unrest among countries producing oil and LNG. Our systems depend on certain key customers and producers for a significant portion of their revenues. The loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in their revenues and cash available to pay distributions. Our systems rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the four largest natural gas transportation customers for each of WIC, CIG and SNG accounted for approximately 58 percent, 51 percent and 61 percent of their respective operating revenues. The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions, or replacements of contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions. Adverse changes in general domestic economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or our ability to make cash distributions. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic economic conditions including recession or economic slowdown. Recently, the direction and relative strength of the U.S. economy has been increasingly uncertain due to softness in the housing markets, rising oil prices, and difficulties in the financial services sector. If economic growth in the United States is slowed, demand growth from consumers for natural gas transported by us may decrease which could impact our planned growth capital. Additionally, our access to capital could be impeded. Any of these events could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to make cash distributions. Neither CIG nor SNG is prohibited from incurring indebtedness, which may affect our ability to make distributions. Neither CIG nor SNG is prohibited by the terms of their respective general partnership agreements from incurring indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, CIG and SNG had approximately $0.6 billion and approximately $1.1 billion principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, respectively. In 2008, CIG’s and SNG’s indebtedness is expected to be reduced by $0.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, as the result of an anticipated repurchase of debt. If El Paso is unsuccessful in executing this program or if CIG or SNG were to incur significant amounts of additional indebtedness, it may inhibit their ability to make distributions to us which would materially and adversely affect our ability to make our minimum quarterly distributions because we expect CIG and SNG’s distributions to us will be a significant portion of the cash we distribute. Restrictions in our credit facility could limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to comply with the restrictions and covenants under our five-year revolving $750 million credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If we are unable to comply with these restrictions and covenants, a significant portion of any future indebtedness under a credit facility may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us under a credit facility may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, any future levels of indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for future operations or capital needs, limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities, or make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic or operating conditions. For a further discussion of our covenants related to this facility, see Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, incur debt or for other purposes. We cannot predict how interest rates will react to changing market conditions. Interest rates on our credit facilities and future debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, to incur debt or for other purposes. The credit and risk profile of our general partner and its owner, El Paso, could adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase our borrowing costs or hinder our ability to raise capital. Any adverse change in the financial condition of El Paso, including the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flow from the partnership to service its indebtedness, may adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile. 14 Table of Contents If we were to seek credit ratings in the future, our credit ratings may be adversely affected by the leverage of our general partner or El Paso, as credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service may consider the leverage and credit profile of El Paso and its affiliates because of their ownership interest in and control of us and the strong operational links between El Paso and us. The ratings assigned to El Paso’s senior unsecured indebtedness are below investment grade. The ratings assigned to both CIG’s and SNG’s senior unsecured indebtedness are currently investment grade rated Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Services, BB by Standard and Poor’s and investment grade rated BBB- by Fitch Ratings. Downgrades of the credit ratings of El Paso, CIG or SNG could increase our cost of capital and collateral requirements, and could impede our access to capital markets. Further, any adverse effect on our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing or hinder our ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which would impair our ability to grow our business and make distributions. If our systems do not successfully complete expansion projects or make and integrate acquisitions that are accretive, our future growth may be limited. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on our units by expanding our business. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to complete expansion projects and make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash per unit generated from operations. We may be unable to successfully complete accretive expansion projects or acquisitions, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make distributions, for any of the following reasons: • unable to identify attractive expansion projects or acquisition candidates or we are outbid by competitors; • El Paso elects not to sell or contribute additional interests in its pipeline systems that it owns to us or to offer attractive expansion projects or acquisition candidates to us; • unable to obtain necessary rights of way or government approvals; • unable to realize anticipated costs savings and successful integration of the businesses we build or acquire; • unable to raise financing for expansion projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; • mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including synergies and potential growth; • unable to secure adequate transportation, storage or throughput commitments to support the expansion or acquisition of new facilities; • the assumption of unknown liabilities when making acquisitions for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; • the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention to other business concerns; or • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas including opposition to energy infrastructure development, especially in environmentally sensitive areas; • there is a lack of available of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to complete expansion projects; • potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; • our ability to construct expansion projects within anticipated costs, including the risk that we may incur cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of equipment, materials, labor, a lack of contractor productivity or other factors beyond our control, that may be material; • the lack of future growth in natural gas supply; and Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. As a result, new facilities may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and thus our ability to make distributions. 15 Table of Contents The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any necessary pipeline repairs, or preventive or remedial measures. The United States Department of Transportation (DOT) has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity, identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area, improve data collection, integration and analysis, repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary and implement preventive and mitigating actions. We currently estimate that it will cost us approximately $2 million for WIC and $2 million and $13 million for each of our 10 percent interests in CIG and SNG to implement pipeline integrity management programs between 2008 and 2012. Our costs may be significantly higher and our cash available for distribution correspondingly reduced due to the following factors: • Our estimate does not include the costs of repairs, remediation or preventive or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which could be substantial; • Additional regulatory requirements that are enacted could significantly increase the amount of our expenditures; • Our actual implementation costs may be materially higher than we estimate because of increased industry-wide demand for contractors and service providers and the related increase in costs; or • Failure to comply with DOT regulations, which could subject us to penalties and fines. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way, if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate or if our facilities are not properly located within the boundaries of such rights-of-way. Although many of these rights are perpetual in nature, we occasionally obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and uninsured risks. Our operations are subject to the inherent risks normally associated with those operations, including pipeline ruptures, explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, fires, adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and flooding), terrorist activity or acts of aggression, and other hazards. Each of these risks could result in damage to or destruction of our facilities or damages or injuries to persons and property causing us to suffer substantial losses. While we maintain insurance against many of these risks to the extent and in amounts that we believe are reasonable, our insurance coverages have material deductibles and self-insurance levels, as well as limits on our maximum recovery, and do not cover all risks. As a result, our financial condition and ability to make cash 16 Table of Contents distributions could be adversely affected if a significant event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our natural gas transportation, storage and processing activities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We may incur substantial costs in order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations. For instance, we may be required to obtain and maintain permits and approvals issued by various federal, state and local governmental authorities; limit or prevent releases of materials from our operations in accordance with these permits and approvals; and install pollution control equipment. Also, under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be exposed to potentially substantial liabilities for any pollution or contamination that may result from our operations. Moreover, new, stricter environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our compliance costs or the cost of any remediation of environmental contamination that may become necessary, and these costs could be material. Environmental compliance and remediation costs and the costs of environmental liabilities could exceed our estimates. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including carbon dioxide and methane, are in various phases of discussion or implementation. These include the Kyoto Protocol which has been ratified by some of the international countries in which we have operations such as Mexico, Brazil, and Egypt. In the United States, various federal legislative proposals have been made over the last several years. It is difficult to predict the timing of enactment of any federal legislation, as well as the ultimate legislation that will be enacted. However, components of the legislation that have been proposed in the past could negatively impact our operations and financial results, including whether any of our facilities are designated as the point of regulation for GHG emissions, whether the federal legislation will expressly preempt the potentially conflicting state GHG legislation and how inter-fuel issues will be handled, including how allowances are granted and whether caps will be imposed on GHG charges. Legislation and regulation are also in various stages of proposal, enactment, and implementation in many of the states in which we operate. This includes various initiatives of individual states and coalition of states in the northeastern portion of the United States that are members of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and seven western states that are members of the Western Climate Initiative. Additionally, various governmental entities and environmental groups have filed lawsuits seeking to force the federal government to regulate GHG emissions and individual companies to reduce the GHG emissions from their operations. These and other suits may also result in decisions by federal agencies and state courts and other agencies that impact our operations and ability to obtain certifications and permits to construct future projects. These legislative, regulatory, and judicial actions could result in changes to our operations and to the consumption and demand for natural gas and oil. Changes to our operations could include increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities, (iii) construct new facilities, (iv) acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions, (v) pay any taxes related to our GHG emissions and (vi) administer and manage a GHG emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of any costs in our rates charged by our pipelines, such recovery of costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond our control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final legislation. Risks Inherent in Our Structure and Relationship with El Paso El Paso controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates, including El Paso, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. El Paso owns and controls our general partner, and appoints all of the directors of our general partner. Some of our general partner’s directors, and some of its executive officers, are directors or officers of El Paso or its affiliates. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to El Paso. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between El Paso and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. Affiliates of our general partner, including El Paso and its other subsidiaries, are not limited in their ability to compete with us and are not obligated to offer us the opportunity to pursue additional assets or businesses, which could limit our commercial activities or our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement among us, El Paso and others will prohibit affiliates of our general partner, including El Paso, El Paso Natural Gas Company (EPNG), Cheyenne Plains Gas Pipeline Company, L.L.C. (Cheyenne Plains) and Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company (TGP), from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, El Paso and its affiliates may acquire, construct or dispose of additional transportation or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Each of these entities is a large, established participant in the interstate pipeline and/or storage business, and each may have greater resources than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with these entities with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from these entities could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or its board of directors, and will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, will be chosen entirely by its owners and not by the unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other 17 Table of Contents matters routinely conducted at such annual meetings of stockholders. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution. Pursuant to an omnibus agreement we entered into with El Paso, our general partner and certain of their affiliates, El Paso and its affiliates will receive reimbursement for the payment of operating and capital expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit, including costs for rendering administrative staff and support services to us, and overhead allocated to us, which amounts will be determined by the general partner in good faith. Payments for these services will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, WIC reimburses CIG for the costs incurred to operate and maintain the WIC system pursuant to an operating agreement. CIG also reimburses certain of its affiliates for costs incurred and services it receives (primarily from EPNG and TGP) and receives reimbursements for costs incurred and services it provides to other affiliates (primarily Cheyenne Plains and Young Gas Storage Company Ltd.). Similarly, the El Paso subsidiary that is the operator and general partner of CIG or SNG will be entitled to be reimbursed for the costs incurred to operate and maintain such system. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and subordinated units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. The limitation and definition of these duties is permitted by the Delaware law governing limited partnerships. In addition, the general partnership agreements of CIG and SNG contain similar provisions that define the fiduciary standards of each partner (a subsidiary of El Paso owns a 90 percent general partner interest in each, and we own a 10 percent general partner interest in each) to the other. In addition, the general partnership agreements include provisions that define the fiduciary standards that the members of the management committee of each such partnership appointed by a partner (initially, El Paso will appoint three members, and we will appoint one member, of each committee) owe to the partners that did not designate such person. In both instances, the defined fiduciary standards are more limited than those that would apply under Delaware law in the absence of such definition. Limited unitholders cannot remove our general partner without its consent. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3 percent of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Our general partner and its affiliates own 66.8 percent of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units. Accordingly, our unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because affiliates of our general partner own sufficient units to be able to prevent the general partner’s removal. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. In addition, under certain circumstances the successor general partner may be required to purchase the combined general partner interest and incentive distribution rights of the removed general partner, or alternatively, such interests will be converted into common units. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their 18 Table of Contents distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or holders of our common units and subordinated units. This may result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations. Our general partner has the right, at a time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48 percent) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, our general partner will be entitled to receive a number of Class B common units. The Class B common units will be entitled to the same cash distributions per unit as our common units and will be convertible into an equal number of common units. The number of Class B common units to be issued will be equal to that number of common units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our Class B common units, which are entitled to receive cash distributions from us on the same priority as our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new Class B common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our general partner incentive distribution rights. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of our general partner from transferring their member interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of the general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of the general partner. This effectively permits a “change of control” of the partnership without unitholders’ vote or consent. In addition, pursuant to the omnibus agreement with El Paso, any new owner of the general partner would be required to change our name so that there would be no further reference to El Paso. If we are deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our assets consist of a 100 percent ownership interest in WIC, a 10 percent general partner interest in CIG and a 10 percent general partner interest in SNG. If a sufficient amount of our assets, such as our ownership interests in CIG or SNG or other assets acquired in the future, are deemed to be “investment securities” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the Commission or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Although general partner interests are typically not considered securities or “investment securities,” there is a risk that our ownership interests in CIG and SNG could be deemed investment securities. In that event, it is possible that our ownership of these interests, 19 Table of Contents combined with our assets acquired in the future, could result in our being required to register under the Investment Company Act if we were not successful in obtaining exemptive relief or otherwise modifying our organizational structure or applicable contract rights. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The occurrence of some or all of these events would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, treatment of us as an investment company would prevent our qualification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes in which case we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as an investment company would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. We may issue additional units without approval which would dilute existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • each unitholder’s proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 75 percent of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders would be required to sell common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on investment. Unitholders might also incur a tax liability upon a sale of such units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that 20 Table of Contents prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our general partner and its affiliates own approximately 49.7 percent of our outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than for the conversion of the subordinated units into common units), our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 66.1 percent of our aggregate outstanding common units. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Unitholder liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if a court or government agency determined that: • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • unitholders’ right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public or private markets, including sales by affiliates of our general partner. Currently, we have 57,194,036 common units and 27,727,411 subordinated units outstanding, which includes 28,750,000 common units that may be resold in the public market immediately, except for the units subject to the lock-up agreements described below. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period, which could occur as early as the first business day after December 31, 2010, assuming certain tests are met, and all of the subordinated units may convert into common units by December 31, 2008 if additional tests are satisfied. All of the 28,437,786 common units held by affiliates of our general partner are subject to resale restrictions under 180-day lock-up agreements with the underwriters of our initial public offering. Each of the lock-up arrangements with the underwriters may be waived in the discretion of Lehman Brothers Inc. Sales by any of our existing unitholders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In addition, our general partner has agreed to provide registration rights to these holders, subject to certain limitations. Under our partnership agreement, our general partner and its affiliates have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any units that they hold, subject to certain limitations. 21 Table of Contents Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by states. If the Internal Revenue Service were to treat us as a corporation or if we become subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available to pay distributions would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation. For example, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state was to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available to pay distributions would be reduced. We will, for example, be subject to a new entity-level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas. Specifically, the Texas margin tax will be imposed at a maximum effective rate of 0.7 percent of our gross income apportioned to Texas. The imposition of such a tax on us by Texas, or any other state, will reduce the cash available for distribution. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, in response to certain recent developments, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income under Section 7704(d) of the Internal Revenue Code. It is possible that these efforts could result in changes to the existing U.S. tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including us. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury 22 Table of Contents Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. An Internal Revenue Service contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the cost of any Internal Revenue Service contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders and our general partner and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. Unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than cash we distribute, they will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not cash is distributed from us. Cash distributions may not equal a unitholder’s share of our taxable income or even equal the actual tax liability that results from the unitholder’s share of our taxable income. The tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. If our unitholders sell units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to them in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a common unit, which decreased their tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to them if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, regardless of whether such amount represents gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to our unitholders due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, if they sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-United States persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-United States persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-United States persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax-exempt entities or foreign persons should consult their tax advisor regarding their investment in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from their sale of our common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to their tax returns. 23 Table of Contents We may adopt certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our methodologies subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profits interests during any 12-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of their investment in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance, or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose an income tax. It is the unitholder’s responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 