ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks as well as the other risks highlighted elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly the discussions about regulation, competition and intellectual property. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We are a development stage company and we have generated no significant revenue to date. I/P, the accounting acquirer, was incorporated in June 2011, at which time it acquired patent assets from Lycos, Inc. To date, our business focused on the assertion of these patents. Therefore, we not only have a very limited operating history, but also a limited track record in executing our business model which includes, among other things, creating, prosecuting, licensing, litigating or otherwise monetizing our patent assets. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business model and future prospects. 8 In light of the costs, uncertainties, delays and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of development with no operating history, there is a significant risk that we will not be able to: •implement or execute our current business plan, or demonstrate that our business plan is sound; and/or •raise sufficient funds in the capital markets to effectuate our long-term business plan. If we are unable to execute any one of the foregoing or similar matters relating to our operations, our business may fail. We commenced legal proceedings against the major online search engines and communications companies, and we expect such proceedings to be time-consuming and costly, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. To license or otherwise monetize the patent assets we own, we commenced legal proceedings against the owners of online search engines and other companies (including Microsoft Corp, ZTE (UK) Ltd., AOL, Inc., Google, Inc., IAC Search & Media, Inc., Gannett Company, Inc., and Target Corporation), pursuant to which we allege that such companies infringe on one or more of our patents. Our viability is highly dependent on the outcome of these litigations, and there is a risk that we may be unable to achieve the results we desire from such litigation, which failure would harm our business to a great degree. In addition, the defendants in these litigations have substantially more resources than we do, which could make our litigation efforts more difficult. We anticipate that legal proceedings may continue for several years and may require significant expenditures for legal fees and other expenses. Disputes regarding the assertion of patents and other intellectual property rights are highly complex and technical. Once initiated, we may be forced to litigate against others to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. The defendants or other third parties involved in the lawsuits in which we are involved may allege defenses and/or file counterclaims in an effort to avoid or limit liability and damages for patent infringement. If such defenses or counterclaims are successful, they may preclude our ability to derive licensing revenue from the patents. A negative outcome of any such litigation, or one or more claims contained within any such litigation, could materially and adversely impact our business. Additionally, we anticipate that our legal fees and other expenses will be material and will negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations and may result in our inability to continue our business. Expenses are also dependent on the outcome of current proceedings. Our failure to monetize our patent assets would significantly harm our business and financial position. While we believe that the patents we own are being infringed by certain major online search engines and communications companies, there is a risk that a court will find the patents invalid, not infringed or unenforceable and/or that the U.S. Patent Office (USPTO) will either invalidate the patents or materially narrow the scope of their claims during the course of a re-examination. In addition, even with a positive trial court verdict, the patents may be invalidated, found not infringed or rendered unenforceable on appeal. This risk may occur either presently or from time to time in connection with future litigations we may bring. If this were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on the viability of our company and our operations. We believe that companies infringe our patents, but recognize that obtaining and collecting a judgment against such companies may be difficult or impossible. Patent litigation is inherently risky and the outcome is uncertain. Some of the parties we believe infringe on our patents are large and well-financed companies with substantially greater resources than ours. We believe that these parties would devote a substantial amount of resources in an attempt to avoid or limit a finding that they are liable for infringing our patents or, in the event liability is found, to avoid or limit the amount of associated damages. In addition, there is a risk that these parties may file re-examinations or other proceedings with the USPTO or other government agencies in an attempt to invalidate, narrow the scope or render unenforceable the patents we own. Moreover, in connection with any of our present or future patent enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or our operating subsidiaries or award attorneys’ fees and/or expenses to one or more defendants, which could be material, and if we or our subsidiaries are required to pay such monetary sanctions, attorneys’ fees and/or expenses, such payment could materially harm our operating results and financial position. In addition, it is difficult in general to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial or appellate level. There is a higher rate of appeals in patent enforcement litigation than standard business litigation. The defendants in any patent action we bring in the United States, including without limitation in the I/P Engine v. AOL et al. matter may file an appeal to the Court of Appeals to the Federal Circuit and possibly in the United States Supreme Court. Such appeals are expensive and time-consuming, and the outcomes of such appeals are sometimes unpredictable, resulting in increased costs and reduced or delayed revenue. Finally, we believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to license our patents without engaging in litigation. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license the patent or pay damages for lost royalties. This will adversely affect our operating results due to the high costs of litigation and the uncertainty of the results. Our subsidiaries, Vringo Infrastructure Inc. (“Vringo Infrastructure”) and Vringo Germany GmbH (“Vringo Germany”), have commenced legal proceedings against ZTE (UK) Ltd., ZTE Corporation, and ZTE Deutschland GmbH (collectively “ZTE”), and expects such litigation to be time-consuming and costly, which may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to operate our business. To license or otherwise monetize the patent assets we acquired from Nokia, Vringo Infrastructure and Vringo Germany have commenced legal proceedings against ZTE, pursuant to which, Vringo Infrastructure and Vringo Germany allege that ZTE infringe certain of Vringo Infrastructure and/or Vringo Germany’s patents. The defendant’s parent company is much larger than us and has substantially more resources, which could make our litigation efforts more difficult. 9 We anticipate that the above-mentioned legal proceedings may continue for several years and may require significant expenditures for legal fees and other expenses. Disputes regarding the assertion of patents and other intellectual property rights are highly complex and technical. Once initiated, Vringo Infrastructure and Vringo Germany may be forced to litigate against others to enforce or defend their intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. ZTE may allege defenses and/or file counterclaims for inter alia revocation or file collateral litigations or initiate investigations in the UK or elsewhere in an effort to avoid or limit liability and damages for patent infringement. If such actions by ZTE are successful, they may preclude our ability to derive licensing revenue from the patents currently being asserted. We anticipate that ZTE may file additional invalidity proceedings against the China equivalents of EP Nos. 1,221,212; 1,330,933 and 1,186,119. Additionally, we anticipate that our legal fees and other expenses will be material and will negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations and may result in our inability to continue our business. We estimate that our legal fees over the next twelve months will be significant for these enforcement actions. Expenses thereafter are dependent on the outcome of the status of the litigation. Our failure to monetize our patent assets would significantly harm our business. Further, should we be deemed the losing party in any of our applications to the Court in the UK litigation or for the entire litigation, we may be held responsible for a substantial percentage of the defendant’s legal fees for the relevant application or for the litigation. These fees may be substantial. To date, ZTE has asserted that its anticipated fees in defending the UK litigation may be approximately $3,100,000. In Germany the amount of fees payable by a losing party is determined based on one of four possible statutory levels of “value in dispute.” The value is dispute is only very loosely correlated to the actual value of any potential final settlement or license. Under the current statute, our risk is capped at €735,000 were the court to determine that the value is dispute is at the highest tier under law. However, should we be successful on any court applications or the entire litigation, ZTE would be responsible for a substantial percentage of our legal fees. In Germany, should the court order an injunction, for it to be enforced, per the statutory rates, we believe the security would be for €1,000,000 for each of the two patents asserted. The statutory rate is not correlated to any actual monetary harm ZTE may suffer from the injunction. As a result, the district court judge is entitled to increase the amount of the security. Further, if any of the patents in suit are found not infringed or invalid, it is highly unlikely that the relevant European patents (UK) would be viewed as essential and therefore infringed by all unlicensed market participants. It is also possible that, in light of our litigation with ZTE, it will choose to suspend or sever its Facetones® related commercial relationship with us. We may not be able to successfully monetize the patents we have acquired from Nokia and thus we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully monetize the patent portfolio that we have acquired from Nokia. The patents we acquired from Nokia could fail to produce anticipated benefits, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. Failure to successfully monetize these patent assets may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of the patent portfolio is subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to the following: •There is a significant time lag between acquiring a patent portfolio and recognizing revenue from those patent assets, if at all. During that time lag, material costs are likely to be incurred that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. •The integration of a patent portfolio is a time consuming and expensive process that may disrupt our operations. If our integration efforts are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from such acquisition. Therefore, there is no assurance that we will be able to monetize the acquired patent portfolio and recoup our investment. We may seek to internally develop new inventions and intellectual property, which would take time and would be costly. Moreover, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for such inventions would lead to the loss of our investments in such activities. Members of our management team have experience as inventors. As such, part of our business may include the internal development of new inventions or intellectual property that we will seek to monetize. However, this aspect of our business would likely require significant capital and would take time to achieve. Such activities could also distract our management team from its present business initiatives, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. There is also the risk that our initiatives in this regard would not yield any viable new inventions or technology, which would lead to a loss of our investments in time and resources in such activities. In addition, even if we are able to internally develop new inventions, in order for those inventions to be viable and to compete effectively, we would need to develop and maintain, and they would heavily rely on, a proprietary position with respect to such inventions and intellectual property. However, there are significant risks associated with any such intellectual property we may develop principally including the following: •patent applications we may file may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; •we may be subject to interference proceedings; •we may be subject to opposition proceedings in the U.S. or foreign countries; 10 •any patents that are issued to us may not provide meaningful protection; •we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; •other companies may challenge patents issued to us; •other companies may have independently developed and/or patented (or may in the future independently develop and patent) similar or alternative technologies, or duplicate our technologies; •other companies may design around patents we have developed; and •enforcement of our patents could be complex, uncertain and very expensive. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any future applications, or that any of our patents, once issued, will provide us with adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged, declared invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope. In addition, since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we will be the first to make our additional new inventions or to file patent applications covering those inventions. It is also possible that others may have or may obtain issued patents that could prevent us from commercializing our products or require us to obtain licenses requiring the payment of significant fees or royalties in order to enable us to conduct our business. As to those patents that we may license or otherwise monetize, our rights will depend on maintaining our obligations to the licensor under the applicable license agreement, and we may be unable to do so. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for our inventions would lead to the loss of our investments in such activities, which would have a material and adverse effect on our company. Moreover, patent application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from our internally generated patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. New legislation, regulations or court rulings related to enforcing patents could harm our business and operating results. If Congress, the USPTO or courts implement new legislation, regulations or rulings that impact the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our business model. For example, limitations on the ability to bring patent enforcement claims, limitations on potential liability for patent infringement, lower evidentiary standards for invalidating patents, increases in the cost to resolve patent disputes and other similar developments could negatively affect our ability to assert our patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (or the Leahy-Smith Act) was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to the United States patent law. These changes include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. As the regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, were only recently fully effective, it is too early to tell what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of patent applications and the enforcement or defense of patents issued to us, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Further, and in general, it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become enacted as laws. Compliance with any new or existing laws or regulations could be difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions of additional patent assets may be time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect our operating results. Acquisitions of patent or other intellectual property assets, which are and will be critical to our business plan, are often time consuming, complex and costly to consummate. We may utilize many different transaction structures in our acquisitions and the terms of such acquisition agreements tend to be heavily negotiated. As a result, we expect to incur significant operating expenses and will likely be required to raise capital during the negotiations even if the acquisition is ultimately not consummated. Even if we are able to acquire particular patent assets, there is no guarantee that we will generate sufficient revenue related to those patent assets to offset the acquisition costs. While we will seek to conduct confirmatory due diligence on the patent assets we are considering for acquisition, we may acquire patent assets from a seller who does not have proper title to those assets. In those cases, we may be required to spend significant resources to defend our interest in the patent assets and, if we are not successful, our acquisition may be invalid, in which case we could lose part or all of our investment in the assets. We may also identify patent or other intellectual property assets that cost more than we are prepared to spend with our own capital resources. We may incur significant costs to organize and negotiate a structured acquisition that does not ultimately result in an acquisition of any patent assets or, if consummated, proves to be unprofitable for us. These higher costs could adversely affect our operating results, and if we incur losses, the value of our securities will decline. In addition, we may acquire patents and technologies that are in the early stages of adoption in the commercial, industrial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies will likely be untested and may be subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our licensees will adopt our patents and technologies in their products and services. As a result, there can be no assurance as to whether technologies we acquire or develop will have value that we can monetize. 11 In certain acquisitions of patent assets, we may seek to defer payment or finance a portion of the acquisition price. This approach may put us at a competitive disadvantage and could result in harm to our business. We have limited capital and may seek to negotiate acquisitions of patent or other intellectual property assets where we can defer payments or finance a portion of the acquisition price. These types of debt financing or deferred payment arrangements may not be as attractive to sellers of patent assets as receiving the full purchase price for those assets in cash at the closing of the acquisition. As a result, we might not compete effectively against other companies in the market for acquiring patent assets, some of whom have greater cash resources than we have. Any failure to maintain or protect our patent assets or other intellectual property rights could significantly impair our return on investment from such assets and harm our brand, business and operating results. Our ability to operate our business and compete in the intellectual property market largely depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our patent assets and other intellectual property. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on and will rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. No assurances can be given that any of the measures we undertake to protect and maintain our assets will have any measure of success. Following the acquisition of patent assets, we will likely be required to spend significant time and resources to maintain the effectiveness of those assets by paying maintenance fees and making filings with the USPTO. We may acquire patent assets, including patent applications, which require us to spend resources to prosecute the applications with the USPTO. Further, there is a material risk that patent related claims (such as, for example, infringement claims (and/or claims for indemnification resulting therefrom), unenforceability claims, or invalidity claims) will be asserted or prosecuted against us, and such assertions or prosecutions could materially and adversely affect our business. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be successfully asserted, defending such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from our other activities. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, any of the following or similar occurrences may reduce the value of our intellectual property: •our applications for patents, trademarks and copyrights may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated; •issued trademarks, copyrights, or patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages versus potentially infringing parties; •our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology; or •our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those we acquire and/or prosecute. Moreover, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries where we may do business in the future or from which competitors may operate. If we fail to maintain, defend or prosecute our patent assets properly, the value of those assets would be reduced or eliminated, and our business would be harmed. Weak global economic conditions may cause infringing parties to delay entering into licensing agreements, which could prolong our litigation and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our business plan depends significantly on worldwide economic conditions, and the United States and world economies have recently experienced weak economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values. This response could have a material negative effect on the willingness of parties infringing on our assets to enter into licensing or other revenue generating agreements voluntarily. Entering into such agreements is critical to our business plan, and our failure to do so could cause material harm to our business. The exercise of a substantial number of warrants or options by our security holders may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Should our warrants outstanding as of March 20, 2013, be exercised, there would be an additional 18,769,115 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. In addition, we currently have incentive equity instruments outstanding to purchase 15,219,002 shares of our common stock granted to our management, employees, directors and consultants. Certain options granted to officers, directors and certain key employees are subject to acceleration of vesting of up to 100% (according to the agreement signed with each grantee), upon a subsequent change of control. Certain options that are outstanding have exercise prices that are below, and in some cases significantly below, recent market prices. Such securities, if exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Therefore, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. The average weighted exercise price of all currently outstanding warrants and options, as of March 20, 2013, is $3.19 per share. Future sales of our shares of common stock by our stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is otherwise performing well. As of March 20, 2013, we had 82,451,074 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, excluding shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants, options or restricted stock units (“RSUs”). As shares saleable under Rule 144 are sold or as restrictions on resale lapse, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly, if the holders of restricted shares sell them, or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. This decline in our stock price could occur even if our business is otherwise performing well. 12 If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete effectively. In addition, the possibility of extensive delays in the patent issuance process could effectively reduce the term during which a marketed product is protected by patents. We may need to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from third parties. We may not be able to obtain the licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights or they may not be available on acceptable terms. If we do not obtain required licenses, we may encounter delays in product development or find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring licenses could be foreclosed. We may, from time to time, support and collaborate in research conducted by universities and governmental research organizations. We may not be able to acquire exclusive rights to the inventions or technical information derived from these collaborations, and disputes may arise over rights in derivative or related research programs conducted by us or in such collaborators. Our ability to compete depends in part upon the strength of our proprietary rights in our technologies, brands and content. We rely on a combination of U.S. and foreign patents, copyrights, trademark, trade secret laws and license agreements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective at stopping unauthorized use of our intellectual property and proprietary rights. In addition, effective trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available or cost-effective in every country in which our services are made available through the Internet. There may be instances where we are not able to fully protect or utilize our intellectual property in a manner that maximizes competitive advantage. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of our products may be reduced, which could negatively impact our business. Our inability to obtain appropriate protection for our intellectual property may also allow competitors to enter our markets and produce or sell the same or similar products. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and diverts critical managerial resources. If any of the foregoing were to occur, or if we are otherwise unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. If we are forced to resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive. In addition, our proprietary rights could be at risk if we are unsuccessful in, or cannot afford to pursue, those proceedings. We also rely on trade secrets and contract law to protect some of our proprietary technology. We entered into confidentiality and invention agreements with our employees and consultants. Nevertheless, these agreements may not be honored and they may not effectively protect our right to our un-patented trade secrets and know-how. Moreover, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. If we or our users infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may have to defend against litigation and pay damages and our business and prospects may be adversely affected. If a third party were to assert that our products infringe on our patent, copyright, trademark, right of publicity, right of privacy, trade secret or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs and be forced to pay substantial damages. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only consume significant financial resources, but would also divert our management time and attention. Such claims or the lack of available access to certain sites or content could also cause our customers or potential customers to purchase competitors’ products if such competitors have access to the sites or contents that we are lacking or defer or limit their purchase or use of our products or services until resolution of the claim. In connection with any such claim or litigation, our mobile carriers and other partners may decide to re-assess their relationships with us, especially if they perceive that they may have potential liability or if such claimed infringement is a possible breach of our agreement with such mobile carrier. If any of our products are found to violate third-party intellectual property rights, we may have to re-engineer one or more of our products, or we may have to obtain licenses from third parties to continue offering our products without substantial re-engineering. Our efforts to re-engineer or obtain licenses could require significant expenditures of time and money and may not be successful. Accordingly, any claims or litigation regarding our infringement of intellectual property of a third party by us or our users could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. If we are unable to enter into or maintain distribution arrangements with major mobile carriers and/or other partners and develop and maintain our existing strategic relationships with mobile carriers, we will be unable to distribute our products effectively or generate significant revenue. Our strategy for distributing our applications and services is dependent upon establishing distribution arrangements with major mobile carriers and other partners. We currently have distribution arrangements with Etisalat (Emirates Telecom), Orange (Everything Everywhere), Vodafone, Verizon, Maxis, Celcom (Axiata Berhard), Hungama Mobile and Du. We need to develop and maintain strategic relationships with these entities in order for them to market our service to their end users. While we have entered into agreements with the aforementioned mobile carriers pursuant to which our service may be made available to their end-users, such agreements are not exclusive and generally do not obligate the partner to market or distribute our service. In addition, a number of our distribution agreements allow the mobile carrier to terminate their rights under the agreement at any time and for any reason upon 30 days’ notice. We are dependent upon the subsequent success of these partners in performing their responsibilities and sufficiently marketing our service. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to negotiate, execute and maintain favorable agreements and relationships with any additional partners, that the partners with whom we have a contractual relationship will choose to promote our service or that such partners will be successful and/or will not pursue alternative technologies. We may not be able to generate revenues from certain of our prepaid mobile customers. We currently operate in markets that have a high percentage of prepaid mobile customers. Many of these users may not have a sufficient balance in their prepaid account when their free trial ends and we bill them to cover the charges for subscribing to our service. As a result, the subscriber numbers that we periodically disclose may not generate revenues at the expected level. We may not be able to continue to maintain our application on all of the operating systems that we currently support. Some of our applications are compatible with various mobile operating systems including Android, Blackberry, Sony Ericsson, Symbian, Apple’s iOS, Java, and Windows Mobile operating systems. While Windows Mobile, Blackberry and Android do not support video ringtones natively, our development team has enabled our application to work on many devices which utilize these operating systems. The user base for the video ringtone service is spread out amongst a number of smartphone and feature phone operating systems, with applications on each aforementioned operating system representing less than 5% of the total subscribers to our video ringtone platform. Our Facetones® platform, which represented less than 5% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012, is heavily reliant upon our Android devices users. Currently, over 96% of our Facetones® users utilize the Android operating system. In addition, our commercial agreement with ZTE is solely reliant on our ability to maintain our support for the Android operating system. Since these operating systems do not support our applications natively, any significant changes to these operating systems by their respective developers may prevent our application from working properly or at all on these systems. If we are unable to maintain our application on these operating systems or on any other operating systems, users of these operating systems will not be able to use our application, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 13 We operate in the digital content market where piracy of content is widespread. Our business strategy is partially based upon users paying us for access to our content. If users believe they can obtain the same or similar content for free via other means including piracy, they may be unwilling to pay for our service. Additionally, since our own clips do not have any copy protection, they can theoretically be distributed by a paying user to a non-paying user without any additional payment to us. If users or potential users obtain our content or similar content without payment to us, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Major network failures could have an adverse effect on our business. Major equipment failures, natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist acts, acts of war, cyber-attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security that affect third-party networks, transport facilities, communications switches, routers, microwave links, cell sites or other third-party equipment on which we rely, could cause major network failures and/or unusually high network traffic demands that could have a material adverse effect on our operations or our ability to provide service to our customers. These events could disrupt our operations, require significant resources to resolve, result in a loss of customers or impair our ability to attract new customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our data is hosted at a remote location. Although we have full alternative site data backed up, we do not have data hosting redundancy. Accordingly, we may experience significant service interruptions, which could require significant resources to resolve, result in a loss of customers or impair our ability to attract new customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, with the growth of wireless data services, enterprise data interfaces and Internet-based or Internet Protocol-enabled applications, wireless networks and devices are exposed to a greater degree to third-party data or applications over which we have less direct control. As a result, the network infrastructure and information systems on which we rely, as well as our customers’ wireless devices, may be subject to a wider array of potential security risks, including viruses and other types of computer-based attacks, which could cause lapses in our service or adversely affect the ability of our customers to access our service. Such lapses could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business depends upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes and our failure to do so could make us less competitive in our industry. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid change and technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations and evolving industry standards. Products using new technologies or emerging industry standards could make our products and services less attractive. Furthermore, our competitors may have access to technology not available to us, which may enable them to produce products of greater interest to consumers or at a more competitive cost. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments may result in serious harm to our business and operating results. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market product and service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances available to our customers, evolving industry standards and changing preferences. Regulation concerning consumer privacy may adversely affect our business. Certain technologies that we currently support, or may in the future support, are capable of collecting personally-identifiable information. We anticipate that as mobile telephone software continues to develop, it will be possible to collect or monitor substantially more of this type of information. A growing body of laws designed to protect the privacy of personally-identifiable information, as well as to protect against its misuse, and the judicial interpretations of such laws, may adversely affect the growth of our business. In the United States, these laws could include the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act, as well as various state laws and related regulations. In addition, certain governmental agencies, like the Federal Trade Commission, have the authority to protect against the misuse of consumer information by targeting companies that collect, disseminate or maintain personal information in an unfair or deceptive manner. In particular, such laws could limit our ability to collect information related to users or our services, to store or process that information in what would otherwise be the most efficient manner, or to commercialize new products based on new technologies. The evolving nature of all of these laws and regulations, as well as the evolving nature of various governmental bodies’ enforcement efforts, and the possibility of new laws in this area, may adversely affect our ability to collect and disseminate or share certain information about consumers and may negatively affect our ability to make use of that information. If we fail to successfully comply with applicable regulations in this area, our business and prospects could be harmed. Our ability to raise capital through equity or equity-linked transactions may be limited. In order for us to raise capital privately through equity or equity-linked transactions, stockholder approval is required to enable us to issue more than 19.99% of our outstanding shares of common stock pursuant to the rules and regulations of the NYSE MKT (formerly, NYSE Amex). Should stockholders not approve such issuances, one means to raise capital would be through debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our balance sheet and overall financial condition. 14 We may not be able to raise additional capital. Moreover, additional financing may have an adverse effect on the value of the equity instruments held by our stockholders. We may choose to raise additional funds in connection with any potential acquisition of patent portfolios or other intellectual property assets or operating businesses. In addition, we may also need additional funds to respond to business opportunities and challenges, including our ongoing operating expenses, protection of our assets, development of new lines of business and enhancement of our operating infrastructure. While we will need to seek additional funding, we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of our financings may be dilutive to, or otherwise adversely affect, holders of our common stock. We may also seek additional funds through arrangements with collaborators or other third parties. We may not be able to negotiate arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our business plans. Any such financing that we undertake will likely be dilutive to our current stockholders. We may not be able to enforce covenants not-to-compete under current Israeli law, which may result in added competition. We have non-competition agreements with some of our employees, some of which are governed by Israeli law. These agreements generally prohibit our employees from competing with or working for our competitors, during their term of employment and for specified periods of time after termination of their employment. However, Israeli courts may be reluctant to enforce non-compete undertakings of former employees and may not enforce those provisions, or only enforce those provisions for relatively brief periods of time in restricted geographical areas, and only when the employee has unique value specific to that employer’s business and not just regarding the professional development of the employee. If we are not able to enforce non-compete covenants, we may be faced with added competition. Because our current revenues are, and are expected to be, generated in U.S Dollars, British Pounds and Euros, while a portion of our expenses is, and is expected to be, incurred in British Pounds, Euros and in New Israeli Shekels, our results may be significantly affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our revenues are, and are expected to be, generated in U.S Dollars, Euros and in the British Pound, while significant salary related expenses are paid in New Israeli Shekels and expenses related to maintaining, prosecuting and enforcing the patents acquired from Nokia are expected to be paid in British Pounds and in Euros. As a result, we are exposed to the adverse effect of increased dollar-measured cost of our operations, as value of these currencies may materially fluctuate against the U.S Dollar, as it is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Fluctuations in the abovementioned exchange rates, or even the appearance of instability in any such exchange rate, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The termination or reduction of tax and other incentives that the Israeli government provides to domestic companies, such as our wholly-owned Israeli subsidiary, may increase our operating costs in Israel. The Israeli government currently provides tax and capital investment incentives to domestic companies, as well as grant and loan programs relating to research and development and marketing and export activities. Our wholly-owned Israeli subsidiary currently takes advantage of some of these programs. We cannot provide any assurance that such benefits and programs will continue to be available in the future to our Israeli subsidiary. In addition, it is possible that our subsidiary will fail to meet the criteria required for eligibility of future benefits. If such benefits and programs were terminated or further reduced, it could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 