ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various portions of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this report. These risk factors are not presented in the order of importance or probability of occurrence. 11 Risks Related to Our Business We have no existing operations or operating history with respect to our location-based entertainment line of business. We have no existing operations or operating history with respect to our location-based entertainment line of business even though we have been pursuing the development and commercialization of this line of business since September 10, 2010. As described elsewhere in this report, we have terminated the SkyView Agreements for use of the SkyView Technology to develop observation wheels and we are no longer responsible for co-developing the Orlando, Florida project. Although we continue to pursue the development and commercialization of our location-based entertainment line of business, including development opportunities for destination entertainment centers anchored by an observation wheel-type attraction, there are no assurances that we will successfully identify development opportunities or if we do so that we will be able to exploit any such development opportunities because our senior management has limited experience in this line of business and we have limited financial resources. You must consider our proposed business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we will encounter as a company with no existing operations or operating history, senior management with limited experience in our line of business and limited financial resources. We are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies frequently encountered by fledgling businesses in competitive environments, many of which are beyond our control. Because we have no operating history in this line of business, it may be more difficult for us to prepare for and respond to these types of risks and the risks described under this “ Item 1.A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report than for a company with an established business and operating cash flow. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and difficulties, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Because we do not currently generate any revenue, we are dependent in the near term on the Funding Agreement to fund our liquidity needs and continue as a going concern. Unless we can successfully develop and commercialize our location-based entertainment line of business, it is highly unlikely that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Because we do not currently generate any revenue, we are dependent on continued funding under the Funding Agreement to fund our liquidity needs and continue as a going concern. However, funding under the Funding Agreement, which began during the fourth quarter of 2012, has exceeded the Funding Agreement’s limit and is continuing at the Project Owner’s discretion and, thus, may cease at any time, whereupon we will need to raise capital through debt and/or equity financings to continue as a going concern and there is no assurance we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, there is no assurance that we will ever receive distributions on our minority equity interest in the Project Owner of the Orlando project of if we do so that such distributions will be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs to continue as a going concern. Unless we can successfully develop and commercialize our location-based entertainment line of business, it is highly unlikely that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our capital requirements are significant to develop and commercialize our location-based entertainment line of business and we may not be able to raise capital to satisfy these significant requirements on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to us or disadvantageous to our existing stockholders or at all. We will need significant amounts of capital to develop and commercialize our location-based entertainment line of business. Currently, we have no established long-term financing arrangements. Therefore, we will need to seek long-term financing through the issuance of equity, the incurrence of debt, and/or through strategic partnerships as well as other arrangements with corporate partners. Even if we are able to raise additional cash or obtain financing through the public or private sale of debt and/or equity securities, funding from joint-venture or strategic partners, debt financing or short-term loans, the terms of such transactions may be unduly expensive or burdensome to us or disadvantageous to our existing stockholders. For example, we may be forced to sell or issue our securities at significant discounts to market, or pursuant to onerous terms and conditions, including the issuance of preferred stock with disadvantageous dividend, voting or veto, board membership, conversion, redemption or liquidation provisions; the issuance of convertible debt with disadvantageous interest rates and conversion features; the issuance of warrants with cashless exercise features; the issuance of securities with anti-dilution provisions; the issuance of high-yield securities and bank debt with restrictive covenants and security packages; and the grant of registration rights with significant penalties for the failure to quickly register. If we are able to raise debt financing, we may be required to secure the financing with all of our future business assets, which could be sold or retained by the creditor should we default in our payment obligations. 12 We may experience product liability claims, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may experience product liability claims. We intend to maintain product liability insurance coverage for observation wheels we own, operate, and sell or license to third parties. If either we are unable to obtain or renew product liability insurance and suffer an adverse determination in any material product liability claim or if we obtain product liability insurance and suffer an adverse determination in any material product liability claim in excess of any insurance coverage, such adverse determination could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial condition. Our independent registered public accounting firm has rendered a report expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report dated March 25, 2014 in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the period ending December 31, 2013 that includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern due to our need to secure additional capital in order to pay our obligations as they become due. If the funding provided to us under the Funding Agreement is either insufficient or ceases for any reason whatsoever and we are not able to obtain debt and/or equity financing, we may not be able to continue as a going concern and you could lose all of the value of our common stock. The concentration of ownership of our capital stock with our affiliates will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Robert F.X. Sillerman, a director of the Company, and Paul C. Kanavos, our President, beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 57.28% of our outstanding common stock and 33% of our outstanding Series A and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, and our executive officers and directors together beneficially own approximately 60.43% of our outstanding common stock and 51% of our outstanding Series A and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. Our executive officers and directors therefore have the ability to influence our management and affairs and the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, approval of any equity-based employee compensation plan and any stock splits or any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result of this concentrated control, unaffiliated stockholders of our company have a limited ability to meaningfully influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our unaffiliated stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the value and/or liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected. We have potential business conflicts with certain of our executive officers because of their relationships with other entities and their ability to pursue business activities for themselves and others that may compete with our business activities. Potential business conflicts exist between us and our executive officers as a result of the following: ● Paul Kanavos, our President, is permitted to devote a portion of his time to providing services for or on behalf of Flag Luxury Properties, LLC and to other businesses, so long as he devotes sufficient time to satisfy his work requirements with our company. ● Mitchell J. Nelson, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, is permitted to devote a portion of his time to providing services for or on behalf of Viggle Inc., a publicly-traded company, and SFX Entertainment Inc., a publicly-traded company, for each of which Mr. Sillerman is the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and controlling stockholder, and with which we have shared services agreements, and to other businesses, so long as he devotes sufficient time to satisfy his work requirements with our company. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with these executive officers. Even if we do so, however, because of their ownership interest in us, these executive officers will have leverage with negotiations over their performance that may result in a resolution of such conflicts that may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with another third party. We have entered into related party transactions on terms that some stockholders may consider not to be in their best interests. We have entered into shared services agreements with entities controlled by Robert F.X. Sillerman, a director and our largest stockholder, whereby certain of our employees, including our General Counsel and Executive Vice President, Mitchell J. Nelson, are permitted to devote a portion of their time providing services to such entities. Because such agreements are subject to certain rules regarding “affiliated” transactions, a majority of the independent members of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors each approve such agreements, which are summarized as follows. The terms of these agreements, despite being approved by the independent members of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee, may not be considered by some stockholders to be in their best interests. 13 As of February 15, 2011, the Company entered into a shared services agreement with Function (x) Inc., now known as Viggle, Inc. (“Viggle”), pursuant to which it shares costs for legal services and administrative services in support of Mitchell J. Nelson, its General Counsel and Executive Vice President to Viggle. The shared services agreement provides, in general, for sharing on a 50/50 basis of the applicable support provided by either company to Mr. Nelson in connection with his services for each company, and an allocation generally based on the services provided by Mr. Nelson, which are initially estimated to be divided evenly between the companies. Viggle will initially be responsible for advancing the salary to Mr. Nelson for both companies and will be reimbursed by the Company for such salary and benefits (but not for any bonus, option or restricted share grant made by either company, which will be the responsibility of the company making such bonus, option or restricted share grant). The agreement provides for the President of each company to meet periodically to assess whether the services have been satisfactorily performed and to discuss whether the allocation has been fair. The audit committees of each company’s board of directors will then review and, if appropriate, approve the allocations made and whether payments need to be adjusted or reimbursed, depending on the circumstances. As of October 31, 2013, the Company has stopped making payments to Viggle for its share of Mr. Nelson’s salary, and Mr. Nelson is not being paid for the 25% of his salary that would be paid by the Company. As of January 4, 2013, the Company entered into a shared services agreement with SFX Holding Corporation, now known as SFX Entertainment Inc. (“SFX”), pursuant to which it shares costs for legal services and administrative services in support of Mitchell J. Nelson, its Senior Legal Advisor and the Company’s General Counsel. The shared services agreement provides, in general, for sharing the applicable support provided by either company to Mr. Nelson, and an allocation generally based on the services provided by Mr. Nelson, which are estimated to be divided 25% to Viggle, 50% to SFX, and 25% to the Company. Mr. Nelson will continue to be paid by Viggle, and SFX will reimburse the Company or Viggle for its portion of such salary and benefits (but not for any bonus, option or restricted share grant made by either company, which will be the responsibility of the company making such bonus, option or restricted share grant). We may lose the services of our key personnel, including certain senior executives and critical consultants and advisors, if we are not able to satisfy our payment obligations under their agreements. Our performance is dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers and consultants and advisors with whom we have agreements. Due to our current financial situation, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to continue to make required payments under the executive employment agreements for 2012 or required payments under our agreements with critical consultants and advisors. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees or critical consultants and advisors could adversely affect our business. Such payments have not been made since October 1, 2009. Amounts accrued for Paul Kanavos are approximately $1,791,946 as of December 31, 2013. Mr. Kanavos was not paid between October 1, 2009 and March 31, 2011 and has received partial payment of $25,000 per month since April 1, 2011. Amounts accrued for Mitchell Nelson are approximately $656,250 as of December 31, 2013. Mr. Nelson was not paid between October 1, 2009 and April 30, 2010 and has received partial payment of $20,000 per month since May 1, 2010, increasing to $25,000 on April 1, 2011. Messrs. Kanavos and Nelson have each agreed to subordinate his salary to the payment of our other overhead expenses if the funding we receive under the Funding Agreement is insufficient to meet all of our overhead expenses. We continue to need to enhance our internal controls and financial reporting systems to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to assess and attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The loss of certain key accounting and finance personnel, coupled with our limited financial and human resources has materially affected our internal controls over financial reporting, including internal controls over accounting for stock based compensation, accounting for long-lived assets and the financial statement close process. In addition, we amended our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 to restate its audited consolidated financial statements (other than the consolidated statement of operations) as of December 31, 2012 and for the year then ended to reflect the effects of accounting and reporting errors related to the incorrect classification and recording of the funds the Company received prior to December 31, 2012 under the Funding Agreement. The funds received by the Company prior to and since December 31, 2012 under the Funding Agreement have been classified and recorded as equity contributions. As a result, material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, as previously determined since before December 31, 2010, continue to persist. Although we had initiated a process which would allow our company to remediate the internal control weaknesses, this process has been terminated due to our financial constraints and limited activities. There is no assurance we will proceed at any time to complete the process, or even if we do that the process will remediate the foregoing internal control weaknesses or prevent the occurrence of additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Substantial amounts of our common stock and other equity securities could be sold in the near future, which could depress our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. 14 All of the outstanding shares of common stock belonging to officers, directors and other affiliates are currently “restricted securities” under the Securities Act. Approximately 55 million shares of these restricted securities are eligible for sale in the public market at prescribed times pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or otherwise. Sales of a significant number of these shares of common stock in the public market or the appearance of such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock and could negatively impact our ability to sell equity in the market to fund our business plans. In addition, we expect that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional common stock and other equity securities in order to adequately capitalize the Company. The issuance of these securities could negatively affect the value of our stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of dividends may have a negative effect on our stock price. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock are senior to our common stock as to the right to receive cash dividends. There are current dividend arrearages on our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and unless and until such arrearages are satisfied in full, we may not pay cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements we may enter into are likely to prohibit or restrict the payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Our issuance of additional shares of our preferred stock, common stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, would dilute proportionate ownership and voting rights. Our issuance of shares of preferred stock, common stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, could negatively impact the value of a stockholder’s shares of common stock as the result of preferential voting rights or veto powers, dividend rights, disproportionate rights to appoint directors to our board, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions granted to preferred stockholders, including the grant of rights that could discourage or prevent the distribution of dividends to stockholders, or prevent the sale of our assets or a potential takeover of our company that might otherwise result in stockholders receiving a distribution or a premium over the market price for their common stock. We are entitled, under our certificate of incorporation to issue up to 300 million common and 75 million “blank check” preferred shares. After taking into consideration our outstanding common stock and Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock as of March 25, 2014, we will be entitled to issue up to 234,923,838 additional common shares, and 74,996,000 preferred shares. Our board may generally issue those common and preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, without further approval by our stockholders based upon such factors as our board of directors may deem relevant at that time. Any preferred shares we may issue shall have such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as may be designated from time-to-time by our board, including preferential dividend rights, voting rights, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions. Reference is made to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for a description of the dividend rights, preferences and other privileges of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. We cannot give you any assurance that we will not issue additional common or preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, under circumstances we may deem appropriate at the time. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: ● Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, subject to the right of the stockholders to elect a successor at the next annual or special meeting of stockholders, which limits the ability of stockholders to fill vacancies on our board of directors. ● Our stockholders may not call a special meeting of stockholders, which would limit their ability to call a meeting for the purpose of, among other things, voting on acquisition proposals. 15 ● Our by-laws may be amended by our board of directors without stockholder approval, provided that stockholders may repeal or amend any such amended by-law at a special or annual meeting of stockholders. ● Our bylaws also provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at an annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders may not be taken by written action in lieu of a meeting. ● Our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which could limit the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates. ● Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. ● Our board of directors may authorize and issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire our company. As a Delaware corporation, by an express provision in our certificate of incorporation, we have elected to “opt out” of the restrictions under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As a smaller reporting company, the Company is not required to provide the information required by this Item. 