Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves many risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Form 10-K and in our other documents filed with the SEC before making an investment decision. In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K and in our other documents filed with the SEC are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently believe are not material may also adversely affect our business. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K and in our other documents filed with the SEC actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way. Risks Related to Our Business We have continued to experience losses from our ongoing operations. Although we are generating increasingly significant revenues from our overall water management activities, we have continued to experience losses from our ongoing operations. Our ability to implement our entire business plan has been adversely affected by our lack of working capital. Although Management has continued to implement plans to address the need of capital funding, which is improving, there is no guarantee that we will not continue to experience losses in continuing operations. We have a limited operating history, and our business may not be as successful as we envision. We are in an early stage of our current business plan. We have a limited operating history with respect to the operation of water management facilities for “unconventional” oil and gas exploration and production activities. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. Therefore, our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the initial expenses, challenges, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the water management industry in general. Investors should evaluate an investment in our company in light of the problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies attempting to develop markets for new products, services and technologies. Despite our best efforts, we may never overcome these obstacles to achieve financial success. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our new business strategy, as well as our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for necessary financing for the construction of facilities related to our water management operations. Our efforts may not be successful or result in increased revenue or profit. We may not generate significant revenues, and our investors have the potential to lose their entire investment. We have significant debt that could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a relatively high amount of indebtedness. Because we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of both principal and interest on our indebtedness, that portion of our cash flow is not available for other purposes. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired by our leverage and existing debt covenants. Our indebtedness could result in the following: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 10 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; • force us to sell assets or seek additional capital to service our indebtedness, which we may be unable to do on terms and conditions favorable to us or at all; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. If any of these were to occur, it would adversely affect, potentially materially, our results of operations. Covenants in our debt agreements impose restrictions on us. Certain of our debt agreements with lenders contain restrictive covenants including, but not limited to, restrictions on our ability to incur debt or encumbrances or sell assets, restrictions on investments and lending, and a debt service coverage ratio. Our failure to comply with these covenants would result in an event of default pursuant to which our lenders could call the entire amount of the debt immediately due. If the entire amount of our debt outstanding under these debt agreements is called due, we may not have sufficient funds available to pay such indebtedness and may not be able to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to operate as a going concern. Additionally, we were not in compliance with certain existing debt covenants contained in our secured debt agreements as of December 31, 2013. However, we did obtain waivers from our lenders for the non-compliance in our debt covenants for the year ending December 31, 2013. We are dependent upon our key personnel. Our operations and financial success significantly depend on our managerial personnel. Our managerial personnel have the right to make all decisions with respect to management and operation of our business and affairs. We are dependent on our executive officers, key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we lose certain members of our management team. We have not entered into any employment agreements with any of our management personnel nor have we obtained “key man” life insurance on any of their lives. We may not be able to meet our capital requirements. Building and operating our water management facilities, hiring qualified management and key employees, complying with licensing, registration and other requirements, maintaining compliance with applicable laws, production and marketing activities, administrative requirements, such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, legal compliance costs and accounting expenses will all require a substantial amount of additional capital and cash flow. Our subsidiary, GreenHunter Water has identified water hauling capacity as a constrained resource in our target areas of operations and we are actively pursuing contracts for this service as part of our Total Water Management Solutions™ portfolio offering. Our ability to generate revenues in this market is dependent upon our ability to source capital for expansion, hire and train operating personnel and maintain our fleet of equipment so it is available when needed. We will be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including possible joint venture projects, which may include a profit sharing component, debt financing, equity financing or other means. We may not be successful in locating a suitable financing or strategic business combination transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, we may not be successful in obtaining the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely, and these are likely to be dilutive to the existing stockholders as we issue additional shares of common stock to investors in future financing transactions and as these financings trigger anti-dilution adjustments in existing equity-linked securities. Also, the terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely affect our financial results. 11 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain necessary financing in the future may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets, both generally and specifically in the water management industry, and the fact that we are a relatively new enterprise without a proven operating history. Risks Related to Our Water Management Business We are subject to United States federal, state and local regulations regarding issues of health, safety, transportation, and protection of natural resources and the environment. Under these regulations, we may become liable for penalties, damages or costs of remediation. Any changes in laws and government regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves using water, sand and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing are expected to result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions for oil and gas explorers and producers. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Sponsors of two companion bills, which are currently pending in the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works Committee have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, this legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens for oil and natural gas operators. Several states are also considering implementing, or in some instances, have implemented, new laws or regulations pertaining to hydraulic fracturing, including the disclosure of chemicals used in connection therewith. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process would make it more difficult and more expensive to complete new wells in the unconventional shale resource formations and increase costs of compliance and doing business for oil and natural gas operators. As a result of such increased costs, the pace of oil and gas activity could be slowed, resulting in less need for water management solutions. Our results of operations could be negatively affected. Our water management operations are subject to other federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety, waste management, and transportation and disposal of produced-water and other materials. For example, our water management business segment is expected to include disposal into injection wells that could pose some risks of environmental liability, including leakage from the wells to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Liability under these laws and regulations could result in cancellation of well operations, fines and penalties, expenditures for remediation, and liability for property damage, personal injuries and natural resource damage. Sanctions for noncompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations also may include assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, revocation of permits and issuance of orders to assess and clean up contamination. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of assessment, cleanup, natural resource loss and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, and, to a lesser extent, orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict and/or joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions regardless of fault and irrespective of when the acts occurred. Demand for our water management services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. A substantial or an extended decline in commodity prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A portion of the demand for our water management services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on the industry’s view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents The prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and may be affected by a variety of factors, including the following: • demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels for oil; • oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries; • the level of excess production capacity; • political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest; • the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • weather conditions. The oil and gas industry historically has experienced periodic downturns. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for our water management services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our water management activities and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the Underground Injection Control (UIC) provisions of the Safe Drinking Water Act to exclude hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection” and associated permitting requirements under certain circumstances. However, the repeal of this exclusion has been advocated by certain advocacy organizations and others in the public. Legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal this exemption and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require reporting and disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, were proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Similar legislation could be introduced in the current session of Congress or at the state level or local level. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways, with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, having commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing. In 2010, a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives undertook investigations into hydraulic fracturing practices, including requesting information from various field services companies. The U.S. Department of the Interior has announced that it will consider regulations relating to the use of hydraulic fracturing techniques on public lands and disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents. In addition, some states and localities have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations or ordinances that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, or that would impose higher taxes, fees or royalties on natural gas production. Moreover, public debate over hydraulic fracturing and shale gas production has been increasing and has resulted in delays of well permits in some areas. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, incurred by our customers or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations or ordinances regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells and an associated decrease in demand for our water management activities, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Competitors in the market place may hinder our ability to compete. We face competition in our water management business from several other water management companies, some of which are much larger enterprises than us. As a result, our ability to effectively enter into additional water management arrangements could be hindered by competition. Some oil and gas producers have their own water management services, which could limit the demand for our services. Our water management business is predicated on providing water management solutions to oil and gas producers. Some of the larger oil and gas producers have their own water management solutions and some have even implemented their own injection well sites to dispose of the waste water produced from their own oil and gas drilling activities. With access to their own water management solutions, larger oil and gas producers will have less need for the water management solutions that we provide. A lower demand for our services will adversely affect our financial position and ability to continue as an ongoing concern. We may be subject to product liability claims for which we do not have adequate insurance coverage. If we were required to pay a substantial product liability claim, our business and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in injury or destruction of property. Such claims may include, among others, that our products introduce other contaminants into the water. Product liability claims relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We must meet evolving customer requirements for water treatment and invest in the development of our water treatment technologies. If we fail to do this, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We need to continually evaluate our technology and product offerings to remain competitive in our markets, in particular, the treatment of water used in the hydraulic fracturing process. If we are unable to develop or enhance our systems and services when necessary, whether through internal development or acquisition, to satisfy evolving customer demands, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects will be harmed significantly. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, droughts, climate change, and other adverse natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Our ability to provide water management operations is subject to the availability of water, which is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including extended droughts and temperature extremes, which are quite common, in our operating regions, but difficult to predict and may be influenced by global climate change. This risk is particularly true with respect to regions where oil and gas operations are significant. In extreme cases, entire operations may be unable to continue without substantial water reserves. These factors can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Salt water injection wells potentially may create earthquakes if near faults. In December 2011, the state of Ohio shut down a disposal site because it was determined that the disposal facility was completed into a previously unknown fault line and may have been a contributing factor in creating low energy earthquakes. We are not currently insured for earthquake coverage in Ohio, but we are evaluating options for business interruption insurance that may provide coverage for a disposal well being shut-in by a geological event. We may be subject to risks arising from our continued ownership of our idle biomass facility in Imperial County, California. We own an idle biomass power plant located in Imperial County, California, which we refer to as the biomass facility. The biomass facility was originally built in 1989 and has not operated since 1994. We do not have the intention of attempting to complete the construction and retrofitting of the biomass facility and have agreed to sell the facility to a third party. 14 Table of Contents Federal, state and local laws impose liability on a landowner for releases or the otherwise improper presence on the premises of hazardous substances. This liability is without regard to fault for, or knowledge of, the presence of such substances. Under certain circumstances, a landowner may be held liable for hazardous materials brought onto the property before it acquired title and for hazardous materials that are not discovered until after it sells the property. Similar liability may occur under applicable state law. In addition, we could face environmental liability for violations on or related to the ownership or operation of the biomass facility. If any hazardous materials are found within our operations and are in violation of the law or exceed regulatory action concentrations at any time, we may be liable for all cleanup costs, fines, penalties and other costs. This potential liability will continue after we sell or cease operations on any subject properties, including the biomass facility, and may apply to hazardous materials present within the properties before we acquired or commenced use of them. If significant losses arise from hazardous substance contamination, our financial viability may be substantially and adversely affected. Moreover, electric utilities and electric power plants such as the biomass facility are subject to environmental laws, rules and regulations that are subject to change. Additional capital expenditures may be required to comply with existing or new environmental laws, rules and regulations. We cannot predict at this time whether any additional legislation or rules will be enacted which will affect the biomass facility, and if such laws or rules are enacted, what the costs to us might be in the future because of such action. In addition, the cost of owning the biomass facility or its resale value could be negatively impacted by new laws and regulations. Moreover, the biomass facility is located in a seismically active region and is subject to seismic events, including ground shaking, liquefaction and landslides. Our insurance may be inadequate to cover losses resulting from such events. We have entered a purchase agreement to sell the biomass facility. The sale is expected to close on or before March 15, 2015. Our failure to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC limits our access to the public markets to raise debt or equity capital. We did not file our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 within the time frame required by the SEC. Because of this late filing, we may be limited in our ability to access the public markets to raise debt or equity capital, which could prevent us from pursuing transactions or implementing business strategies that would be beneficial to our business. We generally will be ineligible to file an SEC Form S-3 registration statement until such time as we have timely filed all SEC reports required to be filed during the twelve months preceding the filing. Further, during such period, we will be unable to use our existing shelf registration statement on Form S-3 or conduct “at-the-market”, or ATM, offerings of our equity securities, which ATM offerings we had previously conducted with respect to our common stock and our Series C Preferred Stock prior to our late SEC filing. We may use Form S-1 to register a sale of our securities to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so would likely increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions in an expeditious manner. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Series C Preferred Stock and Common Stock The price of our common stock and Series C Preferred Stock may be volatile. We expect the price of our common stock and Series C Preferred Stock to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • changing conditions in fuel markets; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of comparable companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • future sales of our capital stock; • tax and other regulatory developments; • our ability to develop water solutions for shale or “unconventional” oil and gas exploration; • our ability to develop and complete facilities, and to introduce and market the energy created by such facilities to economically viable production volumes in a timely manner; and • other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this document. 15 Table of Contents Our directors and officers have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of March 24, 2014, our officers and directors beneficially owned a majority of our common stock in the aggregate. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to control our management and affairs and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we issue additional shares in the future, it will result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, does not permit the holders of our common stock the right to subscribe for additional shares of capital stock upon any issuance or increase thereof. As a result, if we choose to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our stockholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata ownership of common stock. The issuance of additional securities will result in a reduction of the book value and market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we issue any such additional shares or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all current stockholders who do not purchase such shares. Further, such issuance may result in a change of control of the Company. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination or acquire assets, which would dilute the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes the issuance of up to 90,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of March 24, 2014, there were 56,203,611 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock and 8,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of our preferred stock. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock or debt securities (which may be convertible into our capital stock), or a combination of common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, to the stockholders of a potential target or in connection with a related simultaneous financing to complete a business combination or asset purchase. The issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock or debt securities may: • significantly dilute the equity interest of our current stockholders; • subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to holders of our common stock; • cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and possibly result in the resignation or removal of some or all of our present officers and directors; and • adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Similarly, our issuance of additional debt securities could result in the following: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination or asset purchase are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness, even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, or change of control provisions, and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel and other personnel we hire to manage the acquired business and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and successfully integrate the acquired business’s operations with our own will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel and other personnel we hire to manage the acquired business. However, we cannot presently ascertain the future role of our key personnel in the target business. Moreover, while we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage in connection with a business combination, our assessment of these individuals may prove to be incorrect. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating as part of a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources familiarizing them with such requirements. This process could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination, asset purchase or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination or asset purchase. We cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of any specific capital raise prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or asset purchase, we may be required to seek additional financing. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination or asset purchase, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination or asset purchase and seek an alternative target. In addition, if we consummate a business combination or asset purchase, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. 17 Table of Contents Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in our failure to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which in turn could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements or fraud. Any controls system, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Because of such limitations there is a risk that material misstatements or instances of fraud will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by the financial reporting process. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk. In the event we cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or we acquire a business that is unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. As a reporting public company, we are currently subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, such statute also requires an evaluation of any target business acquired by us. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal controls, including an evaluation of any target businesses acquired by a company. In the event the internal controls over financial reporting of a target business cannot satisfy the regulatory requirements relating to internal controls or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, we may not be able to complete a business combination with the target business without substantial cost or significant risks to the Company, or our management may be unable to certify as to the effectiveness of the internal controls following the completion of a business combination. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources or may prevent a business combination with certain target businesses. If we fail to timely complete our evaluation, if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of the internal controls of the Company or the acquired business, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Our outstanding options, warrants, convertible promissory notes and Series C Preferred Stock may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants or conversion of convertible promissory notes or our Series C Preferred Stock could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised or converted, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our options, warrants, convertible promissory notes and Series C Preferred Stock may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of a sale, of the shares underlying the options, warrants, convertible promissory notes and Series C Preferred Stock could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If, and to the extent, options, warrants, convertible promissory notes or shares of Series C Preferred Stock are exercised or converted, as applicable, you may experience dilution to your holdings. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and thus stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and investment opportunities. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. 18 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover. In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place that will inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, bylaws, as amended, and certain other agreements contain certain provisions that may discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include, but are not limited to, the following: • staggered terms of service for our board of directors; • the authorization of the board of directors to issue shares of undesignated preferred stock in one or more series without the specific approval of the stockholders; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and • a provision of our bylaws providing that special meetings of the stockholders may be called by our chairman, our president, or our board of directors, or by our president or secretary at the request in writing of the holders of not less than 30% of all shares issued, outstanding and entitled to vote. All of these provisions could impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. If we do not continue to meet the listing standards established by the NYSE MKT, our common stock or Series C Preferred Stock may not remain listed for trading. The NYSE MKT has established certain quantitative and qualitative standards that companies must meet in order to remain listed for trading on these markets. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain all necessary requirements for listing; therefore, we cannot guarantee that our common stock or Series C Preferred Stock will remain listed for trading on the NYSE MKT or other similar markets. Ongoing losses may prevent us from paying dividends on our Series C Preferred Stock. As we have continued to experience ongoing losses from our current operations we may be prevented or unable to pay dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock in the future. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our new business strategy, as well as our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for necessary financing for the construction of facilities related to our water management operations. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or result in revenue or profit. There is no assurance that we will earn significant revenues to satisfy our current obligations. As a result, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to pay dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock in the future. The Series C Preferred Stock has historically been thinly traded, which may negatively affect investors’ ability to sell their shares. The Series C Preferred Stock has no stated maturity date. Since the Series C Preferred Stock has no stated maturity date, investors seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their shares of Series C Preferred Stock in the secondary market. While shares of our Series C Preferred Stock trade on the NYSE MKT, our Series C Preferred Stock is thinly traded, which may negatively affect investors’ ability to sell their shares. The low trading volume of our Series C Preferred Stock is outside of our control, and may not increase in the near future or, even if it does increase in the future, may not be maintained. 19 Table of Contents The market value of our equity securities could be adversely affected by various factors. The trading price of our common stock and our Series C Preferred Stock may depend on many factors, including the following: • market liquidity; • particularly with respect to our Series C Preferred Stock, prevailing interest rates; • the market for similar securities • general economic conditions; and • our financial condition, performance and prospects. For example, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our equity securities, including our Series C Preferred Stock, to decrease. We could be prevented from paying dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock. Although dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock are cumulative and arrearages will accrue until paid, you will only receive cash dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock if we have funds legally available for the payment of dividends and such payment is not restricted or prohibited by law, the terms of any senior shares, or any documents governing our indebtedness. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock when payable. We have paid the dividends accrued on the currently issued and outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock. In addition, future debt, contractual covenants or arrangements we enter into may restrict or prevent future dividend payments. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will be able to pay any cash dividends on our Series C Preferred Stock. Furthermore, in some circumstances, we may pay dividends in stock rather than cash, and our stock price may be depressed at such time. The Series C Preferred Stock has not been rated and will be subordinated to all of our existing and future debt. The Series C Preferred Stock has not been rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. In addition, with respect to dividend rights and rights upon our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, the Series C Preferred Stock will be subordinated to all of our existing and future debt, and all future capital stock designated as senior to the Series C Preferred Stock. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future to finance potential acquisitions or other activities and the terms of the Series C Preferred Stock do not require us to obtain the approval of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock prior to incurring additional indebtedness. As a result, our existing and future indebtedness may be subject to restrictive covenants or other provisions that may prevent or otherwise limit our ability to make dividend or liquidation payments on our Series C Preferred Stock. Upon our liquidation, our obligations to our creditors would rank senior to our Series C Preferred Stock and would be required to be paid before any payments could be made to holders of our Series C Preferred Stock. Investors should not expect us to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock on the date the Series C Preferred Stock becomes redeemable or on any particular date afterwards. We may not redeem the Series C Preferred Stock prior to June 30, 2015, except pursuant to the special redemption upon a Change of Ownership or Control discussed below. On and after June 30, 2015, we may redeem the Series C Preferred Stock for cash at our option, from time to time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the redemption date. Following a “Change of Ownership or Control” of us by a person, entity or group, we (or the acquiring entity) will have the option to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock, in whole but not in part, within 120 days after the date on which the Change of Ownership or Control has occurred for cash, at $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared), up to the redemption date. However, if we (or the acquiring entity) have not notified the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock before such an event of our intent to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock have the right to convert their Series C Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock immediately before consummation of the Change of Ownership or Control transaction and to participate in such transaction along with the holders of our common stock. The Series C Preferred Stock is convertible at such time into an amount of common stock equal to the result of dividing the sum of the $25.00 per share liquidation preference plus the amount of any accumulated but unpaid dividends to but not including the date of the Change of Ownership or Control by the value of the consideration paid for each share of common stock in the Change of Ownership or Control; provided that such common stock may not exceed 27.9329 shares of common stock per share of converted Series C Preferred Stock, which 27.9329 amount is subject to pro rata adjustments for any stock splits, subdivisions or combinations, which we refer to in our certificate of designations as the “Share Cap”. 20 Table of Contents The Series C Preferred Stock does not have any stated maturity date and will not be subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption provisions except for redemption at our option upon a Change of Ownership or Control as described above or after June 30, 2015. Any decision we may make at any time to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock will depend upon, among other things, our evaluation of our capital position, including the composition of our stockholders’ equity and general market conditions at that time. Holders of Series C Preferred Stock have extremely limited voting rights. Except as expressly stated in the certificate of designations governing the Series C Preferred Stock, as a holder of Series C Preferred Stock, you will not have any relative, participating, optional or other special voting rights and powers and your approval will not be required for the taking of any corporate action other than as provided in the certificate of designations. For example, your approval would not be required for any merger or consolidation in which we are involved or sale of all or substantially all of our assets except to the extent that such transaction materially adversely changes the express powers, preferences, rights or privileges of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock. None of the provisions relating to the Series C Preferred Stock contains any provisions affording the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock protection in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of our assets or business, that might adversely affect the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, so long as the terms and rights of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock are not materially and adversely changed. The issuance of future offerings of preferred stock may adversely affect the value of our Series C Preferred Stock. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, currently authorizes us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series on terms that may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors. We may issue other classes of preferred shares that would rank on parity with or senior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividend rights or rights upon liquidation, winding up or dissolution. The creation and subsequent issuance of additional classes of preferred shares on parity with or, with the consent of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, senior to our Series C Preferred Stock would dilute the interests of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and any issuance of preferred stock that is senior to the Series C Preferred Stock could affect our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on the Series C Preferred Stock. You may be required to use other sources of funds to pay income taxes in respect of dividends received, or deemed to be received, on the Series C Preferred Stock in certain circumstances. If we are required to pay dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock in shares of our common stock or additional shares of Series C Preferred Stock and such shares are not marketable at such time, you will be required to satisfy your income tax liability with respect to such dividends from other sources. Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock may be unable to use the dividends-received deduction. Distributions paid to corporate U.S. holders of the Series C Preferred Stock may be eligible for the dividends-received deduction if we have current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not currently have accumulated earnings and profits. Additionally, we may not have sufficient current earnings and profits during future fiscal years for the distributions on the Series C Preferred Stock to qualify as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the distributions fail to qualify as dividends, U.S. holders would be unable to use the dividends-received deduction. If any distributions on the Series C Preferred Stock with respect to any fiscal year are not eligible for the dividends-received deduction because of insufficient current or accumulated earnings and profits, it is possible that the market value of the Series C Preferred Stock might decline. Non-U.S. Holders may be subject to U.S. income tax with respect to gain on disposition of their Series C Preferred Stock. If we are a U.S. real property holding corporation at any time within the five-year period preceding a disposition of Series C Preferred Stock by a non-U.S. holder or the holder’s holding period of the shares disposed of, whichever period is shorter, such non-U.S. holder may be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to gain on such disposition. If we are a U.S. real property holding corporation, which we expect we are, so long as the Series C Preferred Stock is regularly traded on an established securities market, a non-U.S. holder will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the disposition of the Series C Preferred Stock unless the holder beneficially owns (directly or by attribution) more than 5% of the total fair market value of the Series C Preferred Stock at any time during the five-year period ending either on the date of disposition of such interest or other applicable determination date. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. We currently have net operating loss carryforwards that may be available to offset future taxable income. However, changes in the ownership of our stock (including certain transactions involving our stock that are outside of our control) could result (or may have already resulted) in an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which may significantly limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. To the extent an ownership change has occurred or were to occur in the future, it is possible that the limitations imposed on our ability to use pre-ownership change losses could cause a significant net increase in our U.S. federal income tax liability and could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect. Our Series C Preferred Stock is not generally convertible, and purchasers may not realize a corresponding upside if the price of our common stock increases. Our Series C Preferred Stock is not generally convertible into our common stock and earns dividends at a fixed rate. Accordingly, the market value of our Series C Preferred Stock may depend on dividend and interest rates for other preferred stock, commercial paper and other investment alternatives and our actual and perceived ability to pay dividends on, and in the event of dissolution satisfy the liquidation preference with respect to, our Series C Preferred Stock. Moreover, our right to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock on or after June 30, 2015 or in the event of a Change of Ownership or Control could impose a ceiling on its value. Following a “Change of Ownership or Control” of us by a person, entity or group, we (or the acquiring entity) will have the option to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock, in whole but not in part, within 120 days after the date on which the Change of Ownership or Control has occurred for cash, at $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared), up to the redemption date. However, if we (or the acquiring entity) have not notified the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock before such an event of our intent to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock have the right to convert their Series C Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock immediately before consummation of the Change of Ownership or Control transaction and to participate in such transaction along with the holders of our common stock. The Series C Preferred Stock is convertible at such time into an amount of common stock equal to the result of dividing the sum of the $25.00 per share liquidation preference plus the amount of any accumulated but unpaid dividends to but not including the date of the Change of Ownership or Control by the value of the consideration paid for each share of common stock in the Change of Ownership or Control; provided that such common stock may not exceed 27.9329 shares of common stock per share of converted Series C Preferred Stock, which 27.9329 amount is subject to pro rata adjustments for any stock splits, subdivisions or combinations, which we refer to in our certificate of designations as the “Share Cap”. 