ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe are material to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Business Our Las Vegas subsidiaries are in default under the $475 million mortgage loan secured by the Las Vegas property. Our Las Vegas subsidiaries are in default under the mortgage loan secured by the Las Vegas property, which, as of December 31, 2008, was made up of a $280 million senior secured first lien loan and a $195 million senior secured second lien loan. As a result of the application of certain escrowed proceeds to the payment of principal on the first lien loan, as more fully described below, there is $454 million outstanding under the mortgage loan as of March 27, 2009. The mortgage loan matured on January 6, 2009. As a result of a prior breach of certain maintenance covenants governing the mortgage loan, on January 5, 2009, the second lien lenders under the mortgage loan had delivered a written demand for repayment of all of the obligations owed to them under the loan, including the second lien principal amount of $195 million. On January 6, 2009, following the Las Vegas subsidiaries’ failure to repay the mortgage loan at maturity, the first lien lenders delivered their demand for repayment of all of the obligations owed to them under the loan, including the first lien principal amount of $280 million. On January 30, 2009, the first lien lenders seized the cash collateral reserve accounts established under the mortgage loan from which the Las Vegas subsidiaries had been drawing working capital funds to meet ordinary expenses, including operating the Las Vegas property, and applied $21 million of that amount to the outstanding principal amount of the first lien loan thereby leaving a minimal balance in the reserve accounts. In addition, the first lien lenders have directed all payments from the existing tenants on the Las Vegas property to be delivered directly to the lenders. Each month the Las Vegas subsidiaries may make a request of the lenders to access the cash generated by the tenants that the Las Vegas subsidiaries deem necessary to meet the operating expenses related to the Las Vegas property. The lenders have sole discretion to approve or reject any such request. Because the Las Vegas subsidiaries have limited cash available, if the lenders fail to honor the draw requests in full or in part or delay the processing, the Las Vegas subsidiaries will not be able to satisfy their obligations and pay for necessary expenses unless the Company is able to fund shortfalls from other sources. The Company has limited cash available with which to provide any such funding. Thus, the Las Vegas subsidiaries may not be able to meet their obligations as they come due. Neither the Company nor the Las Vegas subsidiaries are able to repay the obligations outstanding under the mortgage loan. As a result of delivery of the demands for repayment and the loan being past due, the first lien lenders may at any time exercise their remedies under the amended and restated credit agreements governing the mortgage loan, which may include foreclosing on the Las Vegas property. While the Las Vegas subsidiaries have engaged in preliminary discussions with the first lien lenders and the second lien lenders regarding potential solutions to the existing loan defaults, no agreement has yet been reached. To the extent that no consensual arrangement is reached and the lenders pursue their remedies, the Las Vegas subsidiaries may explore possible legal options in connection with trying to maintain their ownership of the Las Vegas property, including bankruptcy or similar filings. Whether or to what extent such action may be effective or viable is unclear. The loss of the Las Vegas property, which is substantially our entire business, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to continue as a going concern. The Las Vegas property, which is substantially our entire business, is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of the financial crisis and global recession. The financial crisis and global recession has resulted in a significant decline in the amount of tourism and discretionary consumer spending in Las Vegas. The tenants on the Las Vegas property are primarily retailers and, as such, are heavily reliant on tourism and discretionary consumer spending in Las Vegas. The Las Vegas property’s commercial leasing activities could be adversely affected because of the failure to maintain high tenant occupancy rates amid these market conditions. In addition, Las Vegas may experience a prolonged decline in the development of new hotels and other entertainment venues, which could adversely affect any potential redevelopment of the Las Vegas property. 10 Table of Contents The financial crisis and global recession has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our ability to repay, refinance or extend the past due $475 million mortgage loan and fund our short-term liquidity needs. Our current cash flow and cash on hand is not sufficient to repay the past due $475 mortgage loan secured by the Las Vegas property or otherwise fund our short-term liquidity needs, including the payment of executive salaries of approximately $5.0 million during 2009. The ongoing financial crisis and global recession have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our ability to repay, refinance or extend the past due $475 million mortgage loan and fund our short-term liquidity needs. Even if we are able to raise additional financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to us or disadvantageous to our existing stockholders. Even if we are able to raise additional cash or obtain financing through the public or private sale of debt and/or equity securities, funding from joint-venture or strategic partners, debt financing or short-term loans, the terms of such transactions may be unduly expensive or burdensome to us or disadvantageous to our existing stockholders. For example, we may be forced to sell or issue our securities at significant discounts to market, or pursuant to onerous terms and conditions, including the issuance of preferred stock with disadvantageous dividend, voting or veto, board membership, conversion, redemption or liquidation provisions; the issuance of convertible debt with disadvantageous interest rates and conversion features; the issuance of warrants with cashless exercise features; the issuance of securities with anti-dilution provisions; the issuance of high-yield securities and bank debt with restrictive covenants and security packages; and the grant of registration rights with significant penalties for the failure to quickly register. If we raise debt financing, we may be required to secure the financing with all of our business assets, which could be sold or retained by the creditor should we default in our payment obligations. Our independent registered public accounting firm has rendered a report expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report dated March 30, 2009 in connection with the audit of the consolidated financial statements of FX Real Estate and Entertainment Inc. as of and for the period ending December 31, 2008 that includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern due to our need to secure additional capital in order to pay the past due $475 million mortgage loan and other obligations as they become due. If we are not able to obtain additional debt and/or equity financing, we may not be able to continue as a going concern and you could lose all of the value of our common stock. The concentration of ownership of our capital stock with our affiliates will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Robert F.X. Sillerman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Paul C. Kanavos, our President, and Brett Torino, our Chairman-Las Vegas Division, beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 63.5% of our outstanding common stock, and our executive officers and directors together beneficially own approximately 69.5% of our outstanding common stock. Our executive officers and directors, including their respective affiliates, therefore have the ability to influence our management and affairs and the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, approval of any equity-based employee compensation plan and any stock splits or any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result of this concentrated control, unaffiliated stockholders of us do not have the ability to meaningfully influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our unaffiliated stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the value and/or liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with Flag Luxury Properties and its affiliates, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. There are conflicts of interest in our current and ongoing relationship with Flag Luxury Properties and its affiliates. These conflicts include: • Certain of our employees, including Mr. Kanavos, our President, are permitted to devote a portion of their time to providing services for or on behalf of Flag Luxury Properties. • Flag Luxury Properties holds a $15 million priority preferred distribution right in FX Luxury Realty which entitles it to receive an aggregate amount of $15 million (together with an accrued priority return of $0.4 million as of December 31, 2008) prior to any distributions of cash by FX Luxury Realty from the proceeds of certain predefined capital transactions. Until the preferred 11 Table of Contents distribution is paid in full, we are required to use the proceeds of certain predefined capital transactions to pay the amount then owed to Flag Luxury Properties. Because of the leverage that Flag Luxury Properties has in negotiating with us, these agreements may not be as beneficial to our stockholders as they would be if they were negotiated at arms’ length and we cannot guarantee that future arrangements with Flag Luxury Properties will be negotiated at arms’ length. For additional information concerning these agreements, please see generally the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have potential business conflicts with certain of our executive officers because of their relationships with CKX and/or Flag Luxury Properties and their ability to pursue business activities for themselves and others that may compete with our business activities. Potential business conflicts exist between us and certain of our executive officers, including Messrs. Sillerman and Kanavos, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • Mr. Sillerman’s cross-ownership and dual management responsibilities relating to CKX, Flag Luxury Properties and us; • Mr. Kanavos’ cross-ownership and dual management responsibilities relating to Flag Luxury Properties and us; • Employment agreements with certain of our executive officers specifically provide that a certain percentage of their business activities may be devoted to Flag Luxury Properties or CKX; and • Messrs. Sillerman and Kanavos will be entitled to receive their pro rata participation, based on their ownership in Flag Luxury Properties, of the $15 million priority distribution of cash from the proceeds of certain predefined capital transactions when received by Flag Luxury Properties. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with these executive officers. Even if we do so, however, because of their ownership interest in us, these executive officers will have leverage with negotiations over their performance that may result in a resolution of such conflicts that may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with another third party. We have entered into a number of related party transactions with CKX and Flag Luxury Properties and their affiliates on terms that some stockholders may consider not to be in their best interests. We are a party to a shared services agreement with CKX, pursuant to which employees for each company, including management level employees, provide services for the other company. In addition, certain of our employees, including Mr. Kanavos, our President, and Mitchell J. Nelson, our General Counsel, are permitted to devote a portion of their time providing services for or on behalf of Flag Luxury Properties. CKX, as a company subject to the rules of The NASDAQ Global Market, is subject to certain rules regarding “affiliated” transactions, including the requirement that all affiliated transactions be approved by a majority of the independent members of the board of directors. Based on Mr. Sillerman’s ownership interests in Flag Luxury Properties, the June 2007 transactions between CKX, Flag Luxury Properties and our company were deemed “affiliated” and therefore subject to the procedural requirements related to such transactions. Because we were a private company at the time we entered into these transactions, and Flag Luxury Properties remains a private company, and not subject to affiliated and related party transaction restrictions, neither Flag Luxury Properties nor our company was represented by a special committee or any independent financial advisor in the negotiation and review of the transactions with CKX. As such, the fairness of the transactions between CKX, Flag Luxury Properties and FX Luxury Realty, from the point of view of Flag Luxury Properties and our company, was determined by management of Flag Luxury Properties, including Messrs. Sillerman and Kanavos, each of whom has numerous conflicting interests relating to their cross-ownership and managerial roles in the various entities. Based on these conflicting interests, some stockholders may not consider these transactions to have been in the best interest of our stockholders. 12 Table of Contents We may lose the services of our key personnel, including certain senior executives, if we are not able to satisfy our payment obligations under their agreements. Our performance is dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers with whom we have employment agreements. Due to our current financial situation, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to continue to make required payments under the executive employment agreements, which amounts total $5.0 million for 2009. A failure to make a payment under an executive employment agreement when due could result in a Termination without Cause under such agreement, which could lead to the departure of the executive in question as well as the acceleration of the obligation to make significant additional payments to the executive in question. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect our business. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our future operating results. The strength and profitability of our business will depend on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and ongoing terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere, had a negative impact on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which terrorist and anti-terrorist activities may affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. In particular, because we expect that our business will rely heavily upon customers traveling by air to Las Vegas, both domestically and internationally, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel by air, like the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, could have a negative impact on our future operations. In addition to fears of war and future acts of terrorism, other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. Negative changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we will offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. We are subject to environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. We may be required to incur significant costs and expend significant funds to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, exposure to asbestos or other hazardous materials, and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. Violation of these laws and regulations could lead to substantial fines and penalties. Under these and other environmental requirements, we, as an owner and/or operator of property, may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at that property. As an owner or operator, we could also potentially be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. These laws and regulations often impose cleanup responsibility and liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The liability under environmental laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of contaminants may be substantial, and the presence of contaminants, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to rent or otherwise use our property. We continue to need to enhance our internal controls and financial reporting systems to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As of December 31, 2008, Section 404 requires us to assess and attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2009, Section 404 requires our independent registered public accounting firm to opine as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Substantial amounts of our common stock and other equity securities could be sold in the near future, which could depress our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. All of the outstanding shares of common stock belonging to officers, directors and other affiliates are currently “restricted securities” under the Securities Act. Approximately 41 million shares of these restricted securities are eligible for sale in the public market at prescribed times pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or otherwise. Sales of a significant number of these shares of common stock in the public market or the appearance of such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock and could negatively impact our ability to sell equity in the market to fund our business plans. In addition, we expect that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional common stock and other equity securities as part of our efforts to raise capital to fund our development plans. The issuance of these securities could negatively effect the value of our stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of dividends may have a negative effect on our stock price. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our credit facilities prohibit, and the terms of any future debt agreements we may enter into are likely to prohibit or restrict, the payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Our issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, would dilute proportionate ownership and voting rights. Our issuance of shares of preferred stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, could negatively impact the value of a stockholder’s shares of common stock as the result of preferential voting rights or veto powers, dividend rights, disproportionate rights to appoint directors to our board, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions granted to preferred stockholders, including the grant of rights that could discourage or prevent the distribution of dividends to stockholders, or prevent the sale of our assets or a potential takeover of our company that might otherwise result in stockholders receiving a distribution or a premium over the market price for their common stock. We are entitled, under our certificate of incorporation to issue up to 300 million common and 75 million “blank check” preferred shares. After taking into consideration our outstanding common and preferred shares as of March 27, 2009, we will be entitled to issue up to 248,007,583 additional common shares and 74,999,999 preferred shares. Our board may generally issue those common and preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, without further approval by our stockholders based upon such factors as our board of directors may deem relevant at that time. Any preferred shares we may issue shall have such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as may be designated from time-to-time by our board, including preferential dividend rights, voting rights, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions. We cannot give you any assurance that we will not issue additional common or preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, under circumstances we may deem appropriate at the time. We may not be able to maintain our NASDAQ Global Market listing. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. Companies listed on The NASDAQ Global Market are required, among other things, to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. If the closing bid price of a security remains below the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement for 30 consecutive business days, companies have a period of 180 calendar days to demonstrate compliance by maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 or more for 10 consecutive business days. In light of the economic downturn’s broad effects on the stock prices of its listed companies, NASDAQ announced in December 2008 the suspension of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price per share and minimum market value of publicly held shares. That suspension is currently schedule to expire on July 20, 2009. Since October 2, 2008, our closing price on The NASDAQ Global Market has been less than $1.00 per share. If the closing bid price of our common stock remains below $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days beginning after July 20, 2009 and we are unable to regain compliance within the following 180 calendar days, or we are unable to continue to meet any of 14 Table of Contents NASDAQ’s listing maintenance standards for any other reason, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock is delisted, we would be forced to list our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board or some other quotation medium. Selling our common stock would be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold and transactions could be delayed. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock. If this happens, we will have greater difficulty accessing the capital markets to raise any additional necessary capital. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, subject to the right of the stockholders to elect a successor at the next annual or special meeting of stockholders, which limits the ability of stockholders to fill vacancies on our board of directors. • Our stockholders may not call a special meeting of stockholders, which would limit their ability to call a meeting for the purpose of, among other things, voting on acquisition proposals. • Our by-laws may be amended by our board of directors without stockholder approval, provided that stockholders may repeal or amend any such amended by-law at a special or annual meeting of stockholders. • Our by-laws also provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at an annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders may not be taken by written action in lieu of a meeting. • Our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which could limit the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates. • Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. • Our board of directors may authorize and issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire our company. As a Delaware corporation, by an express provision in our certificate of incorporation, we have elected to “opt out” of the restrictions under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 