Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of some of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception. We expect to incur losses for at least the next several years and may never achieve or maintain profitability. Since inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. Our net loss was $51.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, $14.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 and $18.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2013, we had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of $183.1 million. To date, we have not generated any revenues and have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our preferred stock, venture debt borrowings, our royalty purchase and sale agreement with Novo A/S our initial public offering, which we closed in September 2013 and a follow-on public offering, which we closed in February 2014. We received net proceeds from the initial public offering of $175.6 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other offering expenses payable by us. We 64 Table of Contents received net proceeds from the follow-on public offering of $55.5 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other offering expenses payable by us. We have devoted substantially all of our financial resources and efforts to research and development. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and increasing operating losses over the next several years. Our net losses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Our most advanced product candidates, Fovista and Zimura, are still in clinical development. We expect our expenses to increase substantially as compared to prior periods, particularly as we continue the development of Fovista in our Phase 3 clinical program for the treatment of wet AMD, initiate additional Phase 2 clinical trials further evaluating the potential benefit of Fovista in wet AMD, when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs, and in other ophthalmic diseases and conditions and continue the development of Zimura, with an initial focus on the treatment of geographic atrophy, a severe form of dry AMD. We are party to agreements, specifically an asset acquisition agreement with OSI (Eyetech), Inc., or Eyetech, which agreement is now held by OSI Pharmaceuticals, LLC, or OSI Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Astellas US, LLC, and license agreements with Archemix Corp., or Archemix, and Nektar Therapeutics, or Nektar, that impose significant milestone payment obligations on us in connection with our achievement of specific clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones with respect to Fovista. See "Business—Acquisition and License Agreements" for more information. Furthermore, we expect to incur additional costs associated with being a public company, including legal, compliance, accounting and investor and public relations expenses, as well as increased insurance premiums. Our expenses also will increase if and as we: •undertake additional clinical development of Fovista, if it is approved, in support of our efforts to broaden the label for Fovista; •conduct additional clinical trials of Zimura that may be required by regulatory authorities for us to seek marketing approval of Zimura for the treatment of geographic atrophy; •in-license or acquire the rights to other complementary products, product candidates or technologies for the treatment of ophthalmic diseases; •seek marketing approval for any product candidates that successfully complete clinical trials; •expand our outsourced manufacturing activities and establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, if we receive, or expect to receive, marketing approval for any of our product candidates; •maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; •hire additional clinical, quality control and scientific personnel; and •add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel, including personnel to support our clinical, manufacturing and planned future commercialization efforts. If we are required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, or regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions to perform clinical trials or studies in addition to those we currently expect to conduct, or if there are any delays in completing the clinical trials of Fovista or Zimura, or the development of any of our other product candidates, our expenses could increase. Our ability to become and remain profitable depends on our ability to generate revenue in excess of our expenses. We do not expect to generate significant revenue unless and until we obtain marketing approval for, and commercialize, our product candidates, and in particular, Fovista, which we do not 65 Table of Contents expect will occur before 2017, if ever. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including: •initiating and obtaining favorable results from our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista; •if initiated, obtaining favorable results, especially with respect to safety, in our other planned clinical trials involving Fovista; •subject to obtaining favorable results from our Phase 3 clinical program, applying for and obtaining marketing approval for Fovista; •establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to effectively market and sell Fovista in the United States with our own specialty sales force targeting retinal specialists; •establishing collaboration, distribution or other marketing arrangements with third parties to commercialize Fovista in markets outside the United States; •obtaining adequate coverage and reimbursement for our product candidates , if approved, from governmental and third-party payors; •protecting our rights to our intellectual property portfolio related to Fovista; and •ensuring the manufacture of commercial quantities of Fovista. We may never succeed in these activities and, even if we do, may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would decrease the value of our company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our research and development efforts, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. A decline in the value of our company could also cause our stockholders to lose all or part of their investment. Our short operating history may make it difficult for our stockholders to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability. We are an early-stage company. We were incorporated and commenced active operations in 2007. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring rights to product candidates, business planning, raising capital and developing Fovista, Zimura and our other product candidates. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to successfully complete a large-scale, pivotal clinical trial, obtain marketing approval, manufacture at commercial scale, or arrange for a third party to do so on our behalf, or conduct sales, marketing and distribution activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, any predictions about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. In addition, as a new business, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known and unknown factors. We will need to transition from a company with a product development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We may not be successful in such a transition. We will need substantial additional funding. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We expect our expenses to increase substantially as compared to prior periods in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we continue the clinical development of and seek marketing approval for Fovista. Additionally, we expect our expenses to increase in connection with our initiation of additional Phase 2 clinical trials evaluating Fovista's potential to provide benefit in wet AMD, our initiation of additional clinical trials evaluating Fovista's potential to treat other ophthalmic conditions 66 Table of Contents and our continued development of Zimura, with an initial focus on the treatment of geographic atrophy, a severe form of dry AMD. Our expenses will increase if we suffer any delays in our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista, including delays in receipt of regulatory clearance to begin our Phase 3 clinical trials in jurisdictions where clearance is required and we have not yet obtained clearance or delays in enrollment of patients. If we obtain marketing approval for Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop, we expect to incur significant commercialization expenses related to product sales, marketing, distribution and manufacturing. Furthermore, we expect to incur additional costs associated with being a public company, hiring additional personnel and expanding our facilities. Accordingly, we will need to obtain substantial additional funding in connection with our continuing operations. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or any future commercialization efforts. We expect to obtain initial, top-line data from our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista in 2016. As of December 31, 2013, our cash and cash equivalents were $210.6 million which, together with $41.7 million received under our royalty agreement with Novo A/S in January 2014, net proceeds of $55.5 million from the follow-on public offering of common stock that we completed in February 2014 and our potential future funding of $41.7 million under our royalty agreement with Novo A/S, we believe will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements through at least the end of 2016. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. This estimate assumes, among other things, that we receive the full financing amount available under our royalty agreement with Novo A/S on a timely basis. The royalty agreement provides that we will use the remaining proceeds we received and future proceeds, if any, under this royalty agreement primarily to support clinical development and regulatory activities for Fovista and for certain other permitted purposes. We are planning to spend significant additional funds on our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista, on our other planned clinical programs, including additional clinical trials to further evaluate the potential benefit of Fovista in wet AMD, when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs, and in other ophthalmic diseases and conditions with unmet need, an additional planned clinical trial evaluating Zimura for the treatment of geographic atrophy and an additional planned clinical trial evaluating Zimura and Fovista administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug for the treatment of anti-VEGF resistant wet AMD patients who are believed to have complement mediated inflammation, and for general corporate purposes and working capital. Costs related to our clinical programs could exceed our expectations if we experience delays in our clinical trials, including because of the timing of our patient enrollment, the availability of drug supply for our clinical trials or for other reasons. Our costs will also increase if we increase investigator fees for our clinical trials or decide to expand the scope of our clinical trials and programs, including, for example, by expanding the geographic mix of sites at which patients are enrolled, or to increase other corporate or licensing activities or staffing. These costs will also increase if we decide to expand the scope of our clinical programs. Our current Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista is expected to continue through at least 2017, and substantial expenditures to complete the Phase 3 clinical program will be required after the receipt of initial, top-line data. Moreover, we are at the early stages of formulating our clinical development plan for Zimura. We expect the clinical development of Zimura will continue for at least the next several years. At this time, we cannot reasonably estimate the remaining costs necessary to complete the clinical development of either Fovista or Zimura, complete process development and manufacturing scale-up activities associated with Fovista and Zimura and potentially seek marketing approval for Fovista or Zimura, or the nature, timing or costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of any other product candidate we may develop. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the scope, progress, costs and results of our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista; 67 Table of Contents •the progress, costs and results of our planned additional clinical trials to further evaluate the potential benefit of Fovista in wet AMD, when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs, and in other ophthalmic diseases and conditions with unmet need; •the scope, progress, results and costs of our planned Phase 2/3 clinical trial evaluating Zimura for the treatment of geographic atrophy and whether and to what extent additional clinical trials may be required by regulatory authorities for us to seek marketing approval in this indication and our Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating Zimura and Fovista administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug for the treatment of anti-VEGF resistant wet AMD patients who are believed to have complement mediated inflammation; •the costs and timing of process development and manufacturing scale-up activities associated with Fovista and Zimura; •the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of Fovista and Zimura; •the costs of commercialization activities for Fovista or Zimura if we receive, or expect to receive, marketing approval for either product candidate, including the costs and timing of expanding our outsourced manufacturing activities and establishing product sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; •subject to receipt of marketing approval, revenue received from commercial sales of Fovista or Zimura, after milestone payments and royalties; •the scope, progress, results and costs of our clinical trials for any other product candidates that we may develop; •our ability to establish collaborations on favorable terms, if at all; •the extent to which we in-license or acquire rights to complementary products, product candidates or technologies; and •the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and protecting our intellectual property rights and defending against intellectual property-related claims. Our commercial revenues, if any, will be derived from sales of Fovista, Zimura or any other products that we successfully develop, none of which we expect to be commercially available for several years, if at all. In addition, if approved, Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop or any product that we in-license may not achieve commercial success. Accordingly, we will need to obtain substantial additional financing to achieve our business objectives. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. If we fail to enroll patients in our Phase 3 clinical trials of Fovista as planned or fail to comply with our obligations in our royalty agreement with Novo A/S, we could lose access to funds that are important to our business, which may force us to delay or terminate the development of Fovista. In addition, a default under the royalty agreement with Novo A/S would permit Novo A/S to foreclose on the Fovista intellectual property. In May 2013, we entered into a royalty purchase and sale agreement, or royalty agreement, with Novo A/S for a financing of up to $125.0 million in return for the sale to Novo A/S of royalty interests in worldwide sales of Fovista. We received approximately $83.3 million of this royalty financing in two separate tranches in May 2013 and January 2014. We are obligated to pay Novo A/S royalties in the low to mid single-digit percentages of worldwide sales of Fovista, with the royalty percentage determined by the amount of funding provided by Novo A/S. 68 Table of Contents We are subject to diligence and other obligations under our royalty agreement with Novo A/S. If we fail to enroll the specified numbers of patients in our Phase 3 clinical trials of Fovista and satisfy additional closing conditions under the royalty agreement or fail to satisfy our other obligations, Novo A/S will have no further obligation to pay additional funds to us under the royalty agreement. We would then need to raise substantial additional funding through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements or other financing alternatives. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay or terminate our research and development programs, including for Fovista, or any future commercialization efforts. In addition, our obligations under our royalty agreement with Novo A/S are secured by collateral, which includes certain intellectual property rights, including all of our intellectual property rights relating to Fovista and regulatory approvals, if any, of Fovista. If we fail to satisfy our diligence obligations or breach any other of our obligations under the royalty agreement with Novo A/S and fail to cure the breach within any applicable grace period, Novo A/S could declare an event of default. In such event, Novo A/S could seek to foreclose on the collateral securing our obligations. If Novo A/S successfully does so, we would lose our rights to develop and commercialize Fovista. Our obligations under our royalty agreement with Novo A/S and the pledge of our intellectual property rights in and regulatory approvals, if any, of Fovista as collateral under such agreement may limit our ability to obtain debt financing. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our stockholders restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances and marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements. The potential funding pursuant to our royalty agreement with Novo A/S is subject to enrollment of specified numbers of patients in our Phase 3 clinical trials of Fovista and our satisfying additional closing conditions and other obligations. We do not have any other committed external source of funds. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders' ownership interests will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our existing stockholders' rights as holders of our common stock. Debt financing and preferred equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Our pledge of assets, including intellectual property rights, as collateral to secure our obligations under our royalty agreement with Novo A/S may limit our ability to obtain debt financing. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances or marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, products or product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market products or product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. We have broad discretion in the use of our available cash and other sources of funding and may not use them effectively. Our management has broad discretion in the use of our available cash and other sources of funding and could spend those resources in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock. The failure by our management to apply these funds 69 Table of Contents effectively could result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause the price of our common stock to decline and delay the development of our product candidates. Pending their use, we may invest our available cash in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value. Risks Related to Product Development and Commercialization We depend heavily on the success of our lead product candidate, Fovista, which we are developing to be administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of patients with wet AMD. In addition, we also depend on the success of Zimura, which we are developing with an initial focus on the treatment of geographic atrophy, a severe form of dry AMD. If we are unable to complete the clinical development of either of these product candidates, if we are unable to obtain marketing approvals for either of these product candidates, or if either of these product candidates is approved and we fail to successfully commercialize the product candidate or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of Fovista to be administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of patients with wet AMD. There remains a significant risk that we will fail to successfully develop Fovista. The results of our Phase 2b clinical trial may not be predictive of the results of our Phase 3 clinical program due, in part, to the fact that we have no clinical data on Fovista combination therapy in any clinical trial longer than 24 weeks, that we have modified the methodology used to determine a patient's eligibility under certain of the inclusion and exclusion criteria for our Phase 3 clinical trials as compared to our Phase 2b clinical trial, that we have no clinical data on the effects of Fovista when administered in combination with Avastin or Eylea and that we plan to conduct our Phase 3 clinical trials at many clinical centers that were not included in our Phase 2b clinical trial. We do not expect to have initial, top-line data from our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista available until 2016. The timing of the availability of such top-line data and the completion of our Phase 3 clinical program is dependent, in part, on our ability to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients in our Phase 3 clinical program on a timely basis. The timing of the availability of initial, top-line data from our Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of Fovista administered in combination with each of Avastin or Eylea may be subject to particular variability because we have no clinical experience testing Fovista administered in combination with Avastin or Eylea. Avastin is not approved for intravitreal use in treating wet AMD, and regulatory authorities may not allow, or physicians and patients may choose not to participate in, a clinical trial in which Avastin is administered in combination with Fovista for the treatment of wet AMD. Even if we ultimately obtain statistically significant, positive results from our Phase 3 clinical program, we do not expect to submit applications for marketing approval for Fovista until the end of 2016. If we are not able to obtain data from our Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating Fovista administered in combination with each of Avastin or Eylea when data from our other two Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis are available, we may nonetheless decide to proceed with submitting applications for marketing approval for Fovista administered only in combination with Lucentis. If we submit applications for marketing approval for Fovista only in combination with Lucentis, we may determine either to delay seeking approval of Fovista in combination with Avastin or Eylea until after regulatory authorities have considered and acted on our applications for Fovista in combination with Lucentis, or to amend our applications once data from our third Phase 3 clinical trial become available. If we were to delay seeking approval of Fovista in combination with Avastin or Eylea pending regulatory action on our applications for Fovista in combination with Lucentis, the FDA or other regulatory authorities could defer taking action on our applications while data remain outstanding from our third Phase 3 clinical trial. Moreover, if we subsequently amend our applications for marketing approval when data from our third Phase 3 clinical trial become available, we may experience further delays in our application process. Additionally, we 70 Table of Contents expect that our Phase 3 clinical trials will continue in accordance with their protocols after we submit applications for marketing approval, and the conclusions of those trials may yield data that are inconsistent with the initial data used to support our applications. Furthermore, we expect to commence additional clinical trials to further evaluate the potential benefit of Fovista in wet AMD, when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs, and in other ophthalmic diseases and conditions with unmet need during the course of our ongoing Phase 3 clinical development program. We are also planning to supply Fovista for other third-party sponsored clinical trials. Adverse safety events or negative or inconclusive efficacy results in any of these trials may impact the progress of our Phase 3 clinical program. In addition, adverse results from any of these additional planned clinical trials would be disclosed in and could negatively impact our applications for marketing approval for Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot accurately predict when or if Fovista will prove effective or safe in humans or will receive marketing approval. In addition, we have invested substantial financial resources in the development of Zimura for the treatment of patients with both dry and wet AMD. There remains a significant risk that we will fail to successfully develop Zimura. We have very limited data from our completed Phase 1/2a clinical trial evaluating the safety and effectiveness of Zimura for the treatment of dry AMD and our completed Phase 1/2a clinical trial evaluating the safety and effectiveness of Zimura administered in combination with Lucentis for the treatment of wet AMD. These trials enrolled 47 patients and 60 patients, and neither trial included a control arm. Furthermore, we have no clinical data on the effects of Zimura when administered in combination with both Fovista and an anti-VEGF drug. We do not expect to receive interim results from our planned Phase 2/3 clinical trial of Zimura for the treatment of dry AMD until 2016. Furthermore, we do not expect to receive initial results from our planned Phase 2 clinical trial of Zimura and Fovista administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug until 2016. The timing of the completion of and the availability of initial results from these planned clinical trials is dependent, in part, on our ability to complete manufacturing scale-up activities for Zimura and to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients in our planned trials on a timely basis. The timing of the receipt of initial results from our Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of Zimura and Fovista administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug may be subject to particular variability because we have no clinical experience testing Zimura administered in combination with Fovista and an anti-VEGF drug. Although our current development plan for Zimura calls for us to initiate a Phase 2/3 clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of Zimura in treating patients with geographic atrophy, we may not initiate or complete this clinical trial for Zimura or any other clinical trial for Fovista, Zimura or any of our other product candidates in accordance with our plans. Other than with respect to our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista, we are still in the early planning stages of our clinical trials. Although our plans reflect our current expectations regarding the endpoints, duration and number of patients to be included in our planned Phase 2/3 clinical trial evaluating Zimura for the treatment of geographic atrophy, we have only had preliminary discussions with regulatory authorities regarding our trial design. As we continue these discussions, our plans may change significantly based on feedback from such regulatory authorities. Our ability to generate product revenues, which we do not expect will occur before 2017, if ever, will depend heavily on our obtaining marketing approval for and commercializing our product candidates, and in particular, Fovista and Zimura. The success of these product candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: •obtaining favorable results from clinical trials; 71 Table of Contents •making arrangements with third-party manufacturers and receiving regulatory approval of our manufacturing processes and our third-party manufacturers' facilities from applicable regulatory authorities; •for Fovista, receipt of marketing approvals from applicable regulatory authorities for the use of Fovista in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD and in particular, which anti-VEGF drugs are included in any such approval given that Avastin, one of the current standard of care anti-VEGF drugs, is not approved for intravitreal use; •for Zimura, receipt of marketing approvals from applicable regulatory authorities for the use of Zimura for the treatment of dry AMD or the use of Zimura administered in combination with Fovista and anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD; •the scope of the label that may be approved by applicable regulatory authorities, including the specific indication for which the product may be approved; •launching commercial sales of the product candidate, if and when approved, whether alone or in collaboration with others; •acceptance of the product candidate, if and when approved, by patients, the medical community and third-party payors; •for Fovista, continued, widespread use of anti-VEGF therapies in the treatment of wet AMD in combination with which Fovista will be used; •effectively competing with other therapies, including the existing standard of care, and other forms of drug delivery; •maintaining a continued acceptable safety profile of the product candidate following approval; •obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection and regulatory exclusivity; and •protecting our rights in our intellectual property portfolio. Successful development of Fovista for the further treatment of wet AMD, the treatment of additional ophthalmic conditions, if any, or for use in other patient populations and our ability, if it is approved, to broaden the label for Fovista will depend on similar factors. If we do not achieve one or more of these factors in a timely manner or at all, we could experience significant delays or an inability to successfully commercialize Fovista, Zimura or any of our other product candidates, which would materially harm our business. If clinical trials of Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authorities or do not otherwise produce positive results, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate. Before obtaining approval from regulatory authorities for the sale of any product candidate, we must complete preclinical development and then conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. The outcome of preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product 72 Table of Contents candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their products. Our Phase 2b clinical trial evaluated a combination of Fovista and Lucentis. In this trial, patients treated with a combination of 0.3 mg of Fovista and Lucentis did not achieve statistically significant superiority compared to Lucentis monotherapy based on the pre-specified primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at the 24 week timepoint. Although a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis demonstrated statistically significant superiority in this trial compared to Lucentis monotherapy based on the pre-specified primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at the 24 week timepoint, we may nonetheless fail to achieve success in our Phase 3 clinical trials involving a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis for a variety of potential reasons. •The primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity in our Phase 2b clinical trial was measured 24 weeks after the first dose of Fovista. The primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity in our Phase 3 clinical program will be measured 12 months after the first dose of Fovista. We have no clinical data on Fovista combination therapy in any clinical trial longer than 24 weeks. We have modified the methodology used to determine a patient's eligibility under certain of the inclusion and exclusion criteria for our Phase 3 clinical trials as compared to our Phase 2b clinical trial. If the positive results we observed at 24 weeks in our Phase 2b clinical trial are not observed at 12 months, we likely will not receive marketing approval for Fovista. •Retrospective subgroup analyses that we performed on the results of our Phase 2b clinical trial may not be predictive of the results of our Phase 3 clinical program. Furthermore, our retrospective analysis of retinal images of subretinal fibrosis from our Phase 2b clinical trial, to date, is based only on our initial assessment of a group of patients who experienced poor visual outcome following treatment with either 1.5 mg of Fovista in combination with 0.5 mg of Lucentis or Lucentis monotherapy in the trial. We have not conducted any statistical analysis with respect to these retinal images, and we may reconsider our belief regarding the anti-fibrotic effects of Fovista in light of further analysis that we plan to undertake. In addition, we intend to have an independent third-party reading center review these retinal images. It is possible that our initial findings will not be confirmed by the reading center. Although we believe that our retrospective analyses further support the results from our primary endpoint and our proposed mechanism of action, retrospective analyses performed after unblinding trial results can result in the introduction of bias and are given less weight by regulatory authorities than pre-specified analyses. Our proposed mechanism of action, in particular, as it relates to the inhibition of subretinal fibrosis, although scientifically rational, may not be supported by our confirmatory analysis of our Phase 2b retinal images or by future clinical trials. Our belief regarding Fovista's potential, when administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug, to inhibit subretinal fibrosis and retinal scarring, may change based on such confirmatory analysis, subsequent clinical trials or other factors. •We plan to conduct our Phase 3 clinical trials at many clinical centers that were not included in our Phase 2b clinical trial. The introduction of new centers, and the resulting involvement of new treating physicians, can introduce additional variability into the conduct of the trials in accordance with their protocols and may result in greater variability of patient outcomes, which could adversely affect our ability to detect statistically significant differences between patients treated with 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug and anti-VEGF drug monotherapy. Furthermore, our Phase 3 clinical program involves two Phase 3 clinical trials testing a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis for the treatment of wet AMD and one trial testing a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista with each of Avastin or Eylea for the treatment of wet AMD. We 73 Table of Contents have no clinical efficacy data on the effects of Fovista when administered in combination with Avastin or Eylea for the treatment of patients with wet AMD. Avastin is not approved for such use. Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis was generally well tolerated in our Phase 1 and Phase 2b clinical trials. However, the results of these clinical trials may not be predictive of the results of our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista due, in part, to the fact that we have no clinical safety data on patient exposure to Fovista administered in combination with any anti-VEGF drug for longer than 24 weeks and that we have no clinical safety data on the effects of Fovista when administered in combination with Avastin or Eylea. In general, the FDA and similar regulatory authorities outside the United States require two adequate and well controlled clinical trials demonstrating safety and effectiveness for marketing approval. If a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis fails to achieve superiority over Lucentis monotherapy with statistical significance on the primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at 12 months in both of our Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of this combination, we likely will not receive marketing approval for Fovista even if the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista with Avastin or Eylea achieves superiority over Avastin or Eylea monotherapy with statistical significance on the primary endpoint in one of our Phase 3 clinical trials. There are a variety of other possible outcomes of our Phase 3 clinical trials. As described below, positive outcomes in one or more of our Phase 3 clinical trials may not be sufficient for the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States to grant marketing approval for Fovista. •If a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis achieves superiority over Lucentis monotherapy with statistical significance on the primary endpoint in only one of our Phase 3 clinical trials and the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista with Avastin or Eylea does not achieve superiority over Avastin or Eylea monotherapy with statistical significance on the primary endpoint in our other Phase 3 clinical trials, we likely will not receive marketing approval for Fovista. •If a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis achieves superiority over Lucentis monotherapy with statistical significance on the primary endpoint in only one of our Phase 3 clinical trials and the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista with Avastin or Eylea achieves superiority over Avastin or Eylea monotherapy with statistical significance on the primary endpoint in our other Phase 3 clinical trial, the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States may nonetheless not grant marketing approval for Fovista. •Even if a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and an anti-VEGF drug achieves superiority over an anti-VEGF drug monotherapy with statistical significance on the primary endpoint in two or all three of our Phase 3 clinical trials, the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States may nonetheless not grant marketing approval for Fovista if such regulatory authorities do not believe that the benefits offered by Fovista administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug are clinically meaningful or that such benefits outweigh the observed or potential risks. In the United States, Avastin and Eylea are two of the most widely used anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD. If a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista with Avastin or Eylea does not achieve superiority over Avastin or Eylea monotherapy with statistical significance on the primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at 12 months in our Phase 3 clinical program, our ability to successfully commercialize Fovista in combination with any anti-VEGF drug could be harmed materially. In addition, any failure of Fovista administered in combination with Avastin or Eylea to achieve superiority over Avastin or Eylea monotherapy with statistical significance on the primary endpoint could cause the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States to require additional clinical trials or other research before granting marketing approval of Fovista for use in combination with any anti-VEGF drug, including Lucentis, for the treatment of patients with wet AMD. In addition, Avastin is not approved for use in treating wet AMD, either in the United States or 74 Table of Contents outside of the United States, and regulatory authorities may not permit the product label for Fovista to include the use of Fovista in combination with Avastin if we were otherwise able to obtain marketing approval for Fovista for use in combination with other anti-VEGF drugs. The protocols for our Phase 3 clinical trials and other supporting information are subject to review by the FDA and regulatory authorities outside the United States. The FDA is not obligated to comment on our protocols within any specified time period or at all or to affirmatively clear or approve our Phase 3 clinical program. We have submitted the protocols for our Phase 3 clinical trials to the FDA and have initiated two of the trials in our Phase 3 clinical program in the United States, both of which are evaluating the safety and efficacy of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis, without waiting for any such comments. We activated initial trial sites in the third trial in this Phase 3 clinical program in the United States in the first quarter of 2014. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may request additional information, require us to conduct additional non-clinical trials or require us to modify our proposed Phase 3 clinical program, including its endpoints, patient enrollment criteria or selection of anti-VEGF drugs, to receive clearance to initiate such program or to continue such program once initiated. Outside the United States, we have made regulatory submissions in selected countries to initiate the two Phase 3 clinical trials of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis, have begun to obtain approvals to proceed, and have begun dosing patients in certain of those countries. We plan to submit applications seeking to initiate the third trial of Fovista administered in combination with Avastin or Eylea in the second quarter of 2014. In the European Union, as further described below, in addition to filing in selected countries with national competent authorities responsible for approving clinical trial applications, we have had continuing interactions regarding our planned application for marketing approval with the EMA's CHMP, which is the committee responsible for preparing opinions on questions concerning medicines for human use. The national competent authorities may follow the advice described below of the CHMP that we consider toxicity studies with Fovista administered in combination with Avastin or Eylea prior to initiating our corresponding Phase 3 clinical trial. We may not receive clearance from regulatory authorities in jurisdictions outside the United States to initiate our Phase 3 clinical program in those jurisdictions on a timely basis. In addition, any modifications to our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista may result in our incurring increased expense or in a delay in the enrollment or completion of such program. In the fourth quarter of 2013, the CHMP recently provided scientific advice on our proposed Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista and our plan to seek regulatory approval for Fovista in the European Union. As part of that scientific advice, the CHMP advised us that the planned primary endpoint for each of the Phase 3 clinical trials for Fovista, mean change from baseline in best corrected visual acuity, was acceptable. In addition, the CHMP confirmed that carcinogenicity studies are not needed for our Phase 3 clinical program. The CHMP also advised us that we should justify our proposal to initiate, at the Phase 3 clinical trial stage, certain previously untested combinations of Fovista with Avastin or Eylea, and, as described above, that we should consider conducting toxicity studies with Fovista administered in combination with Avastin or Eylea prior to initiating our corresponding Phase 3 clinical trial. In addition, the CHMP informed us that the final label for Fovista, if it receives marketing approval, may be required to specify the licensed anti-VEGF drugs that were studied in combination with Fovista, given that Avastin is not approved for intravitreal use, rather than a broad label specifying Fovista for use in combination with any anti-VEGF drug. The CHMP further advised us that there would be a requirement for additional data to bridge the results from our Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis as compared to Lucentis monotherapy to the less frequent dosing regimens of Lucentis and Eylea approved in the European Union. 75 Table of Contents In the first quarter of 2014, we received written confirmation from the CHMP on these issues. The CHMP is in agreement with our plan to use the less frequent dosing schedule approved for Eylea in the European Union as the dosing schedule in our Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating Fovista administered in combination with Eylea so that no bridging study will be needed for this combination. The CHMP has also agreed with our plan for monthly dosing for the first 12 months of each of our Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis and, to slightly modify the dosing regimen in the second 12 months for one of these trials so that it is consistent with the less frequent dosing schedule approved for Lucentis in the European Union. The dosing schedule for the second 12 months for one of these trials in the other study evaluating Fovista administered with Lucentis remains unchanged. Accordingly, the CHMP has informed us that no bridging study will be needed and our anticipated timing and overall expense of our Phase 3 clinical plan, including our plan to have initial, top-line data from our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista available in 2016, remains unchanged. We also anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and potential funding under our royalty agreement with Novo A/S will be sufficient to enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements through at least the end of 2016. Although our plans reflect our current expectations regarding the endpoints, duration and number of patients to be included in our planned Phase 2/3 clinical trial evaluating Zimura for the treatment of geographic atrophy, we have only had preliminary discussions with regulatory authorities regarding our trial design. As we continue these discussions, our plans may change significantly based on feedback from such regulatory authorities. We expect that we will be required by regulatory authorities to conduct additional clinical trials of Zimura prior to seeking marketing approval in this indication. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop beyond those that we contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: •be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates; •not obtain marketing approval at all; •obtain approval for indications or patient populations that are not as broad as intended or desired; •obtain approval with labeling that includes significant use or distribution restrictions or safety warnings, including boxed warnings; •be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements; or •have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval. If we experience any of a number of possible unforeseen events in connection with our clinical trials, potential marketing approval or commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or prevented. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive marketing approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: •clinical trials of our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs; •the number of patients required for clinical trials of our product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; 76 Table of Contents •our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all; •regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; •we may experience delays in reaching, or fail to reach, agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites; •we may decide, or regulators or institutional review boards may require us, to suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; •the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate; and •the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates, such as the anti-VEGF drugs we need to use in combination with Fovista, may become insufficient or inadequate. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or marketing approvals. We do not know whether any clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, or at all. Significant clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations. If we experience delays or difficulties in the enrollment of patients in clinical trials, our receipt of necessary regulatory approvals could be delayed or prevented. We may not be able to initiate new or continue ongoing clinical trials for Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop if we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in these trials as required by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States. In addition, some of our competitors have ongoing clinical trials for product candidates that treat the same indications as Fovista and Zimura, and patients who would otherwise be eligible for our clinical trials may instead enroll in clinical trials of our competitors' product candidates. Patient enrollment is affected by other factors, including: •severity of the disease under investigation; •eligibility criteria for the study in question; •perceived risks and benefits of the product candidate under study; •efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials; •patient referral practices of physicians; •the ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; and •proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients. Additional financing under our royalty agreement with Novo A/S is contingent upon enrolling specified numbers of patients in our Phase 3 clinical trials of Fovista and our satisfying additional closing conditions and other obligations. Novo A/S will not be required to provide the additional royalty financing unless we enroll the specified numbers of patients. In addition, our inability to locate and enroll a sufficient number of patients for our clinical trials would result in significant delays in our clinical trials, could require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether and could delay or 77 Table of Contents prevent our receipt of necessary regulatory approvals. Enrollment delays in our clinical trials also may result in increased development costs for our product candidates, which would cause the value of our company to decline and limit our ability to obtain additional financing. If serious adverse or unacceptable side effects are identified during the development of Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop, we may need to abandon or limit our development of Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate. If Fovista, Zimura or any other of our product candidates are associated with serious adverse events or undesirable side effects in clinical trials or have characteristics that are unexpected, we may need to abandon their development or limit development to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. Although, Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis was generally well tolerated in our Phase 1 clinical trial and our Phase 2b clinical trial, we have no clinical safety data on patient exposure to Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis for longer than 24 weeks, and we have no clinical safety data on the effects of Fovista when administered in combination with Avastin or Eylea. Many compounds that initially showed promise in clinical or earlier stage testing have later been found to cause side effects that prevented further development of the compound. Our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista involves the administration of Fovista in combination with anti-VEGF drugs, and the safety results of our trials are dependent, in part, on the safety and tolerability of the anti-VEGF drug administered in combination with Fovista. Avastin is not approved for the treatment of wet AMD, and according to third-party clinical studies, may be associated with a greater risk of serious adverse events or undesirable side effects as compared to Lucentis. Furthermore, we have very limited data regarding the safety and efficacy of Zimura for the treatment of geographic atrophy. In addition, we have no clinical data on the effects of Zimura when administered in combination with both Fovista and an anti-VEGF drug. Even if Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval, it may fail to achieve the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success and the market opportunity for any of our products and product candidates may be smaller than we estimate. If any of our product candidates receive marketing approval, they may nonetheless fail to gain sufficient market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community. For example, current treatments for wet AMD, including Lucentis, Eylea and low cost, off-label use of Avastin, are well established in the medical community, and doctors may continue to rely on these treatments without Fovista. If Fovista does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: •efficacy and potential advantages compared to alternative treatments, including the existing standard of care; •any restrictions on the use of our products in combination with other medications, such as a Fovista label requiring a waiting period after the intravitreal injection of the anti-VEGF drug and prior to the intravitreal injection of Fovista; •any restrictions on the use of our products to a subgroup of patients, such as by excluding from the Fovista label patients with pure occult subtype wet AMD; •restrictions in the label on the use of Fovista with a particular anti-VEGF drug; 78 Table of Contents •any changes in the dosing regimen of, or the means of administering or delivering, an anti-VEGF drug with which Fovista will be used; •our ability to offer our products at competitive prices, particularly in light of the additional cost of Fovista together with an anti-VEGF drug; •availability of third-party coverage and adequate reimbursement, particularly by Medicare given our target market for persons over age 55; •willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies, particularly in light of the existing available standard of care; •prevalence and severity of any side effects; •whether competing products or other alternatives are more convenient or easier to administer, including whether co-formulated alternatives, alternatives that can be co-administered in a single syringe or alternatives that offer a less invasive method of administration than intravitreal injection come to market; and •strength of our marketing and distribution support. In addition, the potential market opportunity for Fovista is difficult to estimate precisely. If Fovista receives marketing approval for the treatment of wet AMD, it will be approved solely for use in combination with an anti-VEGF drug. The market opportunity for Fovista will be dependent upon the continued use of anti-VEGF drugs in the treatment of wet AMD and the market share of such anti-VEGF drugs for which Fovista is approved as a combination therapy. In addition, because physicians, patients and third-party payors may be sensitive to the addition of the cost of Fovista to the cost of treatment with anti-VEGF drugs, we may experience downward pressure on the price we can charge for Fovista. Our Phase 3 clinical program excludes from enrollment wet AMD patients with pure occult choroidal neovascularization. Based on enrollment of wet AMD patients in third-party clinical trials, the pure occult subtype accounts for approximately 40% of the cases of subfoveal wet AMD. If Fovista receives marketing approval for the treatment of wet AMD and the approved label excludes patients with pure occult lesions, the potential market opportunity for Fovista will be limited to the extent that physicians do not prescribe Fovista for such patients. Our Phase 3 clinical program provides for a 30-minute delay in the injection of Fovista after the anti-VEGF drug to minimize the risk in our clinical trials of an unacceptable increase in intraocular pressure as a result of the amount of the two agents injected. If Fovista receives marketing approval for the treatment of wet AMD and the approved label requires such a waiting period, the potential market opportunity for Fovista may be limited to the extent that physicians and patients find such a waiting period unacceptable. Our ability to develop, acquire or in-license viable drug delivery technologies or methods for co-formulation may be limited, and we may not be able to respond adequately to the competitive dynamics within the wet AMD treatment market. Our estimates of the potential market opportunity for each of Fovista and Zimura include several key assumptions based on our industry knowledge, industry publications, third-party research reports and other surveys. While we believe that our internal assumptions are reasonable, no independent source has verified such assumptions. If any of these assumptions proves to be inaccurate, then the actual market for Fovista or Zimura could be smaller than our estimates of our potential market opportunity. If the actual market for Fovista or Zimura is smaller than we expect, our product revenue may be limited and it may be more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. 79 Table of Contents We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. The development and commercialization of new drug products is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to Fovista and Zimura from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. There are a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that currently market and sell products or are pursuing the development of product candidates for the treatment of wet AMD or other disease indications for which we may develop Fovista. Although there are currently no therapies approved by the FDA or the EMA for the treatment of dry AMD, there are also a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are currently pursuing the development of products for this indication. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Some of these competitive products and therapies are based on scientific approaches that are the same as or similar to our approach, and others are based on entirely different approaches. We also will face similar competition with respect to any other products or product candidates that we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future for the treatment of wet AMD, dry AMD or other diseases. The current standard of care for wet AMD is monotherapy administration of anti-VEGF drugs, principally Avastin, Lucentis and Eylea. Although Avastin is not approved for such use, we are developing Fovista for administration in combination with each of these anti-VEGF drugs, including Avastin. These drugs are well established therapies and are widely accepted by physicians, patients and third-party payors. When used for the treatment of wet AMD, Avastin is inexpensive. Physicians, patients and third-party payors may not accept the addition of Fovista to their current treatment regimens for a variety of potential reasons, including: •if they do not wish to incur the additional cost of Fovista; •if they perceive an additional injection to administer Fovista as undesirable; •if they perceive the addition of Fovista to be of limited benefit to patients; or •if they wish to treat with anti-VEGF drugs as monotherapy first and add Fovista only if and when resistance to continued anti-VEGF therapy limits further enhancement of visual outcome with anti-VEGF monotherapy. There are also a number of products in preclinical research and clinical development by third parties to treat wet AMD, including product candidates that inhibit the function of PDGF, the molecule whose function Fovista also inhibits, product candidates that inhibit the function of both VEGF and PDGF that could obviate the separate use of an anti-PDGF agent, such as Fovista, and anti-VEGF gene therapy products that may substantially reduce the number and frequency of intravitreal injections when treating wet AMD. These companies include pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies of various sizes, such as Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which is working in collaboration with Bayer HealthCare, Allergan, Inc., Xcovery Vision LLC, Santen, Neurotech Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Avalanche Biotechnologies, Inc., Somalogic, Inc., and others. In addition, other companies are undertaking efforts to develop technologies to allow for a less frequent dosing schedule for anti-VEGF therapies that are currently in use. If such technologies are successfully developed and approved for use, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials of Fovista using a less frequent dosing schedule than the dosing schedule we are currently using in our ongoing Phase 3 clinical program. Any such trials may not be successful. Moreover, there are a number of products in preclinical research and clinical development by third parties to treat dry AMD, including product candidates that are designed to suppress inflammation, 80 Table of Contents such as complement system inhibitors and coricosteroids, visual cycle modulators, antioxidants and neuroprotectants, cell and gene therapies and vascular enhancers. These companies include pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies of various sizes. In particular, with respect to complement system inhibition, these companies include Genentech, Novartis's Alcon division, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and MophoSys. Moreover, we are aware that the following companies are pursuing the clinical development of ophthalmic product candidates with other mechanisms of action for the treatment of dry AMD: Alimera Sciences, Acucela, Colby Pharmaceuticals, Allergan, Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline and Macuclear. See "Business—Competition" for more information regarding potential competitive products. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient to use or are less expensive than Fovista, Zimura or other products that we may develop. The commercial opportunity for Fovista also could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that reduce or eliminate the use of anti- VEGF drugs for the treatment of patients with wet AMD. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third-party payors, particularly Medicare, seeking to encourage the use of less expensive or more convenient products. We expect that if Fovista is approved, the cost of treatment of wet AMD with a combination of Fovista with an anti-VEGF drug will be significantly higher than the cost of treatment of wet AMD with Avastin, Lucentis or Eylea monotherapy. Insurers and other third- party payors may encourage the use of anti-VEGF drugs as monotherapy and discourage the use of Fovista in combination with these drugs. This could limit sales of Fovista. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller and other early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. We have no experience manufacturing Fovista or Zimura at commercial scale. As a result, delays in regulatory approval of Fovista or Zimura may occur. Also, manufacturing issues may arise that could cause delays or increase costs. We have no experience manufacturing the chemically synthesized aptamers comprising the active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API, of Fovista or Zimura at commercial scale. We currently rely on a single third-party manufacturer to supply us with API for both Fovista and Zimura and a different, single third-party manufacturer to provide fill-finish services for both Fovista and Zimura, in all cases, on a purchase order basis. In order to obtain regulatory approval for Fovista or Zimura, these third-party manufacturers will be required to consistently produce the API used in Fovista or Zimura in commercial quantities and of specified quality or execute fill-finish services on a repeated basis and document their ability to do so. This is referred to as process validation. If the third-party manufacturers are unable to satisfy this requirement, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our third-party manufacturer of API for Fovista and Zimura has made only a limited number of lots of Fovista and Zimura to date and has not made any commercial lots. The manufacturing processes for Fovista and Zimura have never been tested at commercial scale, and the process 81 Table of Contents validation requirement has not yet been satisfied for either product candidate. These manufacturing processes and the facilities of our third-party manufacturers, including our third-party API manufacturer and our third-party manufacturer providing fill-finish services, will be subject to inspection and approval by the FDA before we can commence the manufacture and sale of Fovista or Zimura, and thereafter on an ongoing basis. Our third-party manufacturer for API has never been inspected by the FDA and has not been through the FDA approval process for a commercial product. Our third-party manufacturer providing fill-finish services is subject to FDA inspection from time to time. Failure by our third-party manufacturers to pass such inspections and otherwise satisfactorily complete the FDA approval regimen with respect to our product candidates may result in regulatory actions such as the issuance of FDA Form 483 notices of observations, warning letters or injunctions or the loss of operating licenses. Based on the severity of the regulatory action, our clinical or commercial supply of API or our fill-finish services could be interrupted or limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The standards of the International Conference on Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use, which establishes basic guidelines and standards for drug development in the United States, the European Union, Japan and other countries, do not apply to oligonucleotides, including aptamers. As a result, there is no established generally accepted manufacturing or quality standard for the production of Fovista or Zimura. Even though the FDA has reviewed the quality standards for Fovista to be used in our Phase 3 clinical program, the FDA has the ability to modify these standards at any time and foreign regulatory agencies may impose differing quality standards and quality control on the manufacture of Fovista. The lack of uniform manufacturing and quality standards among regulatory agencies may delay regulatory approval of Fovista or Zimura. Also, as we or any manufacturer we engage scales up manufacturing of any approved product, we may encounter unexpected issues relating to the manufacturing process or the quality, purity and stability of the product, and we may be required to refine or alter our manufacturing processes to address these issues. Resolving these issues could result in significant delays and may result in significantly increased costs. If we experience significant delays or other obstacles in producing any approved product for commercial scale, our ability to market and sell any approved products may be adversely affected and our business could suffer. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into sales, marketing and distribution agreements with third parties, we may not be successful in commercializing Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop if and when Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate is approved. We do not have a sales, marketing or distribution infrastructure and have no experience in the sale, marketing or distribution of pharmaceutical products. To achieve commercial success for any approved product, we must either develop a sales, marketing and distribution organization or outsource those functions to third parties. If Fovista receives marketing approval, we plan to commercialize it in the United States with our own focused, specialty sales force targeting retinal specialists. In addition, we expect to utilize a variety of types of collaboration, distribution and other marketing arrangements with third parties to commercialize Fovista in markets outside the United States. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. For example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. If the commercial launch of a product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing and distribution capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel. 82 Table of Contents Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products on our own include: •our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; •the lack of complementary products to be offered by our sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and •unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. If we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues and our profitability, if any, are likely to be lower than if we were to market, sell and distribute ourselves any products that we develop. In addition, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our product candidates or may be unable to do so on terms that are favorable to us. We likely will have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively. If we do not establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates. Even if we are able to commercialize Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop, the product may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which would harm our business. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. Current and future legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we might obtain marketing approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product, possibly for lengthy time periods, and negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more product candidates, even if our product candidates obtain marketing approval. Our ability to commercialize Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A major trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and third- party payors, particularly Medicare, have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. We cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available for Fovista, Zimura or any other product that we commercialize, and, even if these are available, the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory. 83 Table of Contents Reimbursement may affect the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Obtaining and maintaining adequate reimbursement for our products may be particularly difficult because of the higher prices often associated with drugs administered under the supervision of a physician and because, in the case of Fovista, our drug will be administered in combination with other drugs that may carry high prices. In addition, physicians, patients and third-party payors may be sensitive to the addition of the cost of Fovista to the cost of treatment with anti-VEGF drugs. We may be required to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies to justify coverage and reimbursement or the level of reimbursement relative to other therapies, including in the case of Fovista, relative to monotherapy with anti-VEGF drugs. If coverage and adequate reimbursement are not available or reimbursement is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. There may be significant delays in obtaining reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States. Moreover, eligibility for reimbursement does not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs, and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable payment rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition. Our strategy of obtaining rights to complementary products, product candidates or technologies for the treatment of a range of ophthalmic diseases through in-licenses and acquisitions may not be successful. We may expand our product pipeline through opportunistically in-licensing or acquiring the rights to complementary products, product candidates or technologies for the treatment of ophthalmic diseases. Because we expect generally that we will not engage in early stage research and drug discovery, the future growth of our business will depend in significant part on our ability to in-license or acquire the rights to approved products, additional product candidates or technologies. However, we may be unable to in-license or acquire the rights to any such products, product candidates or technologies from third parties. The in-licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products is a competitive area, and a number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products, product candidates or technologies that we may consider attractive. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to us. We also may be unable to in-license or acquire the rights to the relevant complementary product, product candidate or technology on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return on our investment. Furthermore, we may be unable to identify suitable products, product candidates or technologies within our area of focus. If we are unable to successfully obtain rights to suitable products, product candidates or technologies, our business, financial condition and prospects for growth could suffer. 84 Table of Contents Product liability lawsuits against us could divert our resources, cause us to incur substantial liabilities and limit commercialization of any products that we may develop or in-license. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of Fovista, Zimura and any other product candidate that we develop in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any products that we develop or in-license. Because our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista involves the administration of Fovista in combination with anti-VEGF drugs, including off-label use by intravitreal injection of Avastin provided by us, we also face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of such anti-VEGF drugs. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates, anti-VEGF drugs administered in combination with our product candidates or our products caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for any product candidates or products that we may develop or in-license; •injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention; •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •significant costs to defend the related litigation; •substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; •loss of revenue; •reduced time and attention of our management to pursue our business strategy; and •the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop or in-license. We currently hold $10.0 million in product liability insurance coverage in the aggregate, with a per incident limit of $10.0 million, which may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. We will need to increase our insurance coverage when and if we begin commercializing Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that receives marketing approval. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We may enter into collaborations with third parties for the development or commercialization of Fovista, Zimura and our other product candidates. If those collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to capitalize on the market potential of these product candidates. If either of Fovista or Zimura receives marketing approval, we plan to commercialize such product candidate in the United States with our own focused, specialty sales force targeting retinal specialists. In addition, we expect to utilize a variety of types of collaboration, distribution and other marketing arrangements with third parties to commercialize Fovista and Zimura in markets outside the United States. We also may seek third-party collaborators for development and commercialization of our other product candidates. Our likely collaborators for any sales, marketing, distribution, development, licensing or broader collaboration arrangements include large and mid-size pharmaceutical companies, regional and national pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. We are not currently party to any such arrangement. However, if we do enter into any such arrangements with any third parties in the future, we will likely have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators dedicate to the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our collaborators' abilities and efforts to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. 85 Table of Contents Collaborations involving our product candidates would pose numerous risks to us, including the following: •collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations and may not perform their obligations as expected; •collaborators may deemphasize or not pursue development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs based on clinical trial results, changes in the collaborators' strategic focus, product and product candidate priorities or available funding; •collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing; •collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates if the collaborators believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive than ours; •we could grant exclusive rights to our collaborators, which would prevent us from collaborating with others; •disagreements or disputes with collaborators, including disagreements or disputes over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of products or product candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to product candidates or might result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would divert management attention and resources, be time-consuming and be expensive; •collaborators with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of such product or products; •collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights, may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, may misappropriate our trade secrets or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to litigation and potential liability; and •collaborations may be terminated for the convenience of the collaborator, our breach of the terms of the collaboration or other reasons and, if terminated, we may need to raise additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates. If a collaborator of ours were to be involved in a business combination, the foregoing risks would be heightened, and the business combination may divert attention or resources or create competing priorities. The collaborator may delay or terminate our product development or commercialization program. If one of our collaborators terminates its agreement with us, we could find it more difficult to attract new collaborators and the perception of our company in the business and financial communities could be adversely affected. Collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all. If we are not able to establish collaborations, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans. The potential commercialization of Fovista and the development and potential commercialization of Zimura and our other product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. 86 Table of Contents For some of our product candidates, we may decide to collaborate with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development and potential commercialization of those product candidates. For example, we intend to seek to commercialize Fovista through a variety of types of collaboration arrangements outside the United States. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States, the potential market for the subject product candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such product candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of technology, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. The collaborator may also consider alternative product candidates or technologies for similar indications that may be available to collaborate on and whether such a collaboration could be more attractive than the one with us for our product candidate. We may also be restricted under future license agreements from entering into agreements on certain terms with potential collaborators. Collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. In addition, there have been a significant number of recent business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators. If we are unable to reach agreements with suitable collaborators on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, we may have to curtail the development of a product candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of any sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to fund and undertake development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we fail to enter into collaborations and do not have sufficient funds or expertise to undertake the necessary development and commercialization activities, we may not be able to further develop our product candidates or bring them to market and generate product revenue. We rely on third parties in conducting our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet deadlines for the completion of such trials. We have relied on third-party clinical research organizations, or CROs, in conducting our completed clinical trials of Fovista and Zimura. We expect to continue to rely on third parties, such as CROs, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, in conducting our clinical trials for Fovista and Zimura, including the clinical trials in our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista, and expect to rely on these third parties to conduct clinical trials of any other product candidate that we develop. We or these third parties may terminate their engagements with us at any time for a variety of reasons, including a failure to perform by the third parties. If we need to enter into alternative arrangements, that would delay our product development activities. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. For example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, or GCPs, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. We also are required to register ongoing clinical trials and post the results of completed clinical trials on a government-sponsored database 87 Table of Contents within specified timeframes. Failure to do so can result in fines, adverse publicity and civil and criminal sanctions. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we will not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, marketing approvals for our product candidates and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize our product candidates. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. We also rely on other third parties to store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. Any performance failure on the part of our distributors could delay clinical development or marketing approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue. We contract with third parties for the manufacture of both Fovista and Zimura for clinical trials and expect to continue to do so in connection with the commercialization of Fovista and for clinical trials and commercialization of any other product candidates that we develop. This reliance on third parties increases the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our product candidates or products or such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could delay, prevent or impair our development or commercialization efforts. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of Fovista or Zimura and have limited personnel with manufacturing experience. We currently rely on and expect to continue to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture clinical and commercial supplies of Fovista and Zimura, preclinical and clinical supplies of other product candidates we may develop and commercial supplies of products if and when approved for marketing by applicable regulatory authorities. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of Fovista, Zimura and any other product candidate or product that we develop may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to commercialize any products that receive marketing approval on a timely and competitive basis. In addition, any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay clinical development or marketing approval. We currently rely exclusively on a single third-party manufacturer to provide clinical supplies of both Fovista drug substance and Zimura drug substance. We also engage a single third-party manufacturer to provide fill-finish services for clinical supplies of both Fovista and Zimura. We obtain these supplies and services from each of these manufacturers on a purchase order basis. We do not currently have any contractual commitments for commercial supply of bulk drug substance for either Fovista or Zimura or for fill-finish services. We also do not currently have arrangements in place for redundant supply or a second source for bulk drug substance for Fovista or Zimura or for fill-finish services. The prices at which we are able to obtain supplies of drug substance for Fovista or Zimura and fill-finish services may vary substantially over time and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, we currently rely on sole-source suppliers of certain raw materials and other specialized components of production used in the manufacture and fill-finish of each of Fovista and Zimura. We currently rely exclusively on Nektar to supply us with a proprietary polyethylene glycol, or PEG, reagent for Fovista under a manufacturing and supply agreement. PEG reagent is a chemical we use to modify the chemically synthesized aptamer in Fovista. The PEG reagent made by Nektar is proprietary to Nektar and, to our knowledge, is not currently available from any other third party. We obtain a different proprietary PEG reagent used to modify the chemically synthesized aptamer in Zimura from a different supplier on a purchase order basis. We do not currently have any contractual commitments for supply of the PEG reagent we use for Zimura. 88 Table of Contents If our third-party manufacturers for Fovista drug substance, Zimura drug substance or the PEG reagent we use for Zimura fail to fulfill our purchase orders, if Nektar breaches its obligations to us under our supply agreement, or if any of these manufacturers should become unavailable to us for any reason, we believe that there are a limited number of potential replacement manufacturers, and we likely would incur added costs and delays in identifying or qualifying such replacements. We could also incur additional costs and delays in identifying or qualifying a replacement manufacturer for fill-finish services for Fovista or Zimura if our existing third-party fill-finish provider should become unavailable for any reason. We may be unable to establish any agreements with such replacement manufacturers or fill-finish providers or to do so on acceptable terms. Under the supply agreement with Nektar, we must purchase our entire requirements for PEG reagent for Fovista exclusively from Nektar at an agreed price. In the event Nektar breaches its supply obligations as specified in the agreement, Nektar has agreed to enable a third-party manufacturer, if one is available, to supply us with PEG reagent until Nektar demonstrates that Nektar has the ability to supply all of our requirements for PEG reagent. The agreement of Nektar to enable a third-party manufacturer may be difficult to enforce in the context of a breach by Nektar of its supply obligations. We may not be able to reach an agreement with any third-party manufacturer to take on the supply of PEG reagent under such circumstances because, to our knowledge, no third party currently manufactures the PEG reagent we currently use in making the Fovista drug substance. Furthermore, the third party's right to supply us with PEG reagent would be subject to termination at any time once Nektar demonstrates that Nektar has the ability to supply all of our requirements for PEG reagent, which may limit the interest of potential third-party manufacturers in undertaking such an engagement. In addition, the process of transferring any necessary technology or process to a third-party manufacturer would entail significant delay in or disruption to the supply of PEG reagent and, as a result, a significant delay in or disruption to the manufacture of Fovista. Furthermore, the FDA or other regulatory authorities might require additional studies to demonstrate equivalence between the Fovista drug substance made using the Nektar PEG reagent and the Fovista drug substance made using any replacement PEG reagent we propose to use or between the Nektar PEG reagent itself and any replacement PEG reagent we propose to use to make Fovista. We ultimately may be unable to demonstrate such equivalence. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails additional risks, including: •Fovista, Zimura and any other product that we develop may compete with other product candidates and products for access to a limited number of suitable manufacturing facilities that operate under current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations; •reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; •the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party; •the possible misappropriation of our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and know-how; and •the possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply with cGMP regulations or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Our failure, or the failure of our third-party manufacturers, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including clinical holds, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products and harm our business and results of operations. 89 Table of Contents We depend on licenses and sublicenses for development and commercialization rights to our products, product candidates and technologies. Termination of these rights or the failure to comply with obligations under these or other agreements under which we obtain such rights could materially harm our business and prevent us from developing or commercializing our products and product candidates. We are party to various agreements, including an acquisition agreement with OSI Pharmaceuticals and license agreements with Archemix and Nektar that we depend on for rights to Fovista, Zimura and other product candidates and technology. These agreements impose, and we may enter into additional licensing arrangements or other agreements with third parties that may impose, diligence, development and commercialization timelines, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. Under our acquisition agreement with OSI Pharmaceuticals and our licensing agreement with Nektar, we are obligated to pay royalties on net product sales of Fovista or other product candidates or related technologies to the extent they are covered by the agreement. Under our license agreements with Archemix and Nektar, we would not be able to avoid our payment obligations even if we believed a licensed patent right was invalid or unenforceable because the license agreements provide that our licenses to all licensed patent rights would terminate if we challenge the validity or enforceability of any licensed patent right. We also have diligence and development obligations under our acquisition agreement with OSI Pharmaceuticals and our license agreements with Archemix and Nektar. Generally, these diligence obligations require us to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, seek regulatory approval for and commercialize our products in the United States, the European Union and, in some cases, certain other specified countries. If we fail to comply with our obligations under current or future acquisition, license and funding agreements, or otherwise breach an acquisition, license or funding agreement, our counterparties may have the right to terminate these agreements, in which event we might not have the rights or the financial resources to develop, manufacture or market any product that is covered by these agreements. Our counterparties also may have the right to convert an exclusive license to non-exclusive in the territory in which we fail to satisfy our diligence obligations, which could materially adversely affect the value of the product candidate being developed under any such agreement. Termination of these agreements or reduction or elimination of our rights under these agreements may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated agreements with less favorable terms, seek alternative sources of financing or cause us to lose our rights under these agreements, including our rights to Fovista, Zimura and other important intellectual property or technology. Any of the foregoing could prevent us from commercializing Fovista, Zimura or our other product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and overall financial condition. In addition to the generally applicable diligence obligations set forth above, we have specific obligations with respect to the licensing agreements described below: •Under the terms of the agreement with OSI Pharmaceuticals under which we acquired certain rights to develop and commercialize Fovista, if we fail to meet our diligence obligations, OSI Pharmaceuticals may terminate the agreement as to such countries with respect to which such failure has occurred, and upon such termination we will be obligated to grant, assign and transfer to OSI Pharmaceuticals specified rights and licenses related to our anti-PDGF aptamer technology and other related assets, and if we are manufacturing such anti-PDGF products at the time of such termination, may be obligated to provide transitional supply to OSI Pharmaceuticals of covered anti-PDGF products, for such countries. •Under the terms of the amended license, manufacturing and supply agreement with Nektar, pursuant to which we obtained, among other licenses, an exclusive, worldwide license to make, develop, use, import, offer for sale and sell certain products that incorporate a specified PEG reagent linked with the active ingredient in Fovista, if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to achieve the first commercial sale of Fovista in the United States or one of a specified group of other countries by December 31, 2017, which date Nektar and we may agree in good 90 Table of Contents faith to extend in specified circumstances, Nektar may either terminate our license or convert our license for such country to a non-exclusive license. In addition, if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop Fovista and file and seek approval of NDAs on a schedule permitting us to make first commercial sales of Fovista in specified countries by December 31, 2017, do not make such first commercial sales of Fovista by such date, or thereafter fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to continue to commercialize and market Fovista in such countries, we will be in material breach of the agreement and Nektar will have the right to terminate the agreement. In addition to the above risks, certain of our intellectual property rights are sublicenses under intellectual property owned by third parties, in some cases through multiple tiers. The actions of our licensors may therefore affect our rights to use our sublicensed intellectual property, even if we are in compliance with all of the obligations under our license agreements. For example, the licenses from Archemix include sublicenses to us of rights to specified technology, which we refer to as the SELEX technology, licensed by University License Equity Holdings, Inc. to Gilead Sciences, Inc., or Gilead, and sublicensed by Gilead to Archemix, as well as other technology owned by Gilead and licensed to Archemix. In addition, the licenses we have obtained from Nektar include sublicenses of certain rights. Should our licensors or any of the upstream licensors fail to comply with their obligations under the agreements pursuant to which they obtain the rights that are sublicensed to us, or should such agreements be terminated or amended, our ability to develop and commercialize Fovista, Zimura and other product candidates may be materially harmed. While the applicable agreements may contain contractual provisions that would in many instances protect our rights as a sublicensee in these circumstances, these provisions may not be enforceable and may not protect our rights in all instances. Further, we do not have the right to control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of all of our licensed and sublicensed intellectual property, and even when we do have such rights, we may require the cooperation of our licensors and their upstream licensors, which may not be forthcoming. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to prosecute, maintain and enforce our licensed and sublicensed intellectual property effectively. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. We seek to protect our proprietary position by filing in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions patent applications related to our novel technologies and product candidates that are important to our business. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. In addition, we may not pursue or obtain patent protection in all major markets. Moreover, in some circumstances, we do not have the right to control the preparation, filing or prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain the patents, covering technology that we license from third parties. In some circumstances, our licensors have the right to enforce the licensed patents without our involvement or consent, or to decide not to enforce or to allow us to enforce the licensed patents. Therefore, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. If any such licensors fail to maintain such patents, or lose rights to those patents, the rights that we have licensed 91 Table of Contents may be reduced or eliminated and our right to develop and commercialize any of our products that are the subject of such licensed rights could be adversely affected. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. In addition, the laws of foreign jurisdictions may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, European patent law restricts the patentability of methods of treatment of the human body more than United States law does. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned or licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office might require that the term of a patent issuing from a pending patent application be disclaimed and limited to the term of another patent that is commonly owned or names a common inventor. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, term, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. In particular, during prosecution of any patent application, the issuance of any patents based on the application may depend upon our ability to generate additional preclinical or clinical data that support the patentability of our proposed claims. We may not be able to generate sufficient additional data on a timely basis, or at all. Moreover, changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted, redefine prior art, may affect patent litigation and switch the U.S. patent system from a "first-to-invent" system to a "first-to-file" system. Under a first-to-file system, assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, the first inventor to file a patent application generally will be entitled to the patent on an invention regardless of whether another inventor had made the invention earlier. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first-to-file provisions, only became effective on March 16, 2013. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Moreover, we may be subject to a third-party preissuance submission of prior art to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review, interference proceedings or other patent office proceedings or litigation, in the United States or elsewhere, challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights; allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us; or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection 92 Table of Contents provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future product candidates. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products during the period of their commercialization, or if the scope of the patent protection is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected. The last to expire of the U.S. patent rights covering the composition of matter of Fovista is expected to expire in 2017. Such expiration date is not long after the date by which we expect Fovista to be commercialized in the United States if we obtain marketing approval and may even be prior to such date. We own an issued U.S. patent covering methods of treating wet AMD with Fovista in combination with Avastin or Lucentis, which is expected to expire in 2024. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, permits a patent restoration term of up to five years as partial compensation for patent term effectively lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process occurring after the issuance of a patent. We may be able to obtain a patent term extension for one of these U.S. patents. However, we may not be granted an extension because of, for example, failing to apply within applicable deadlines, failing to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or otherwise failing to satisfy applicable requirements. Moreover, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than we request. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension or restoration or the term or scope of any such extension is less than we request, any period during which we have the right to exclusively market our product will be shorter than we would otherwise expect, and our competitors may obtain approval of competing products following our patent expiration, and our revenue could be reduced, possibly materially. The European patent rights covering the composition of matter of Fovista are expected to expire in 2018. Such expiration date is shortly after the date by which we expect Fovista to be commercialized in Europe, and may even be prior to such date. We own a granted European patent covering a combination of Fovista and Lucentis or Avastin for use in a method for treating wet AMD. This European patent is expected to expire in 2024. We also have filed in the United States patent applications covering a method of treating wet AMD in patients with Fovista in combination with Eylea and in Europe and Japan a patent application covering a combination of Fovista and Eylea for use in a method for treating wet AMD. These patent applications are in the early stages of prosecution and may not result in patents being issued which protect the use of Fovista in combination with Eylea for treating wet AMD or effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. If a patent is granted following prosecution of any such application, that patent would be expected to expire in 2030. Method-of-treatment patents are more difficult to enforce than composition-of-matter patents because of the risk of off-label sale or use of a drug for the patented method. The FDA does not prohibit physicians from prescribing an approved product for uses that are not described in the product's labeling. Although use of a product directed by off-label prescriptions may infringe our method-of-treatment patents, the practice is common across medical specialties, particularly in the United States, and such infringement is difficult to detect, prevent or prosecute. Off-label sales of other products having the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as Fovista, Zimura or any of our other product candidates would limit our ability to generate revenue from the sale of Fovista, Zimura or such other product candidates, if approved for commercial sale. In addition, European patent law generally makes the issuance and enforcement of patents that cover methods of treatment of the human body difficult. Further, once the composition-of-matter patents relating to Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate in a particular jurisdiction, if any, expire, competitors will be able to make, offer and sell products containing the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as Fovista, Zimura or such other product candidate in that jurisdiction so long as these competitors do not infringe any other of our 93 Table of Contents patents covering Fovista's or Zimura's composition of matter or method of use or manufacture, do not violate the terms of any marketing or data exclusivity that may be granted to us by regulatory authorities and obtain any necessary marketing approvals from applicable regulatory authorities. In such circumstances, we also may not be able to detect, prevent or prosecute off-label use of such competitors' products containing the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as Fovista or Zimura in combination with any anti-VEGF drug, even if such use infringes any of our method-of-treatment patents. The Hatch-Waxman act also permits the manufacture, use, offer for sale, sale or importation of a patented invention other than a new animal drug or veterinary biological product, if the manufacture, use, offer for sale, sale or importation is solely for uses that are reasonably related to development of information that could be submitted to the FDA. For this reason, our competitors might be able under certain circumstances to perform activities within the scope of the U.S. patents that we own or under which we are licensed without infringing such patents. This might enable our competitors to develop during the lifetime of these patents drugs that compete with Fovista or Zimura, if approved. The U.S. patent rights covering Zimura as a composition of matter are expected to expire in 2025. Such expiration date may be prior to the date by which we would be able to commercialize Zimura in the United States if we seek and obtain marketing approval. The U.S. patent rights covering methods of treating certain complement protein mediated disorders with Zimura are expected to expire in 2026. As a result, if we obtain marketing approval for Zimura, we may not be able to exclude competitors from commercializing products similar or identical to ours if such competitors do not use or promote our claimed methods of treatment or do use or promote our methods of treatment after our patents expire. Depending on potential delays in the regulatory review process for Zimura, we may be able to obtain a patent term extension for one of these patents in the United States, but we can provide no assurances that such an extension will be obtained. Our issued patents may not be sufficient to provide us with a competitive advantage. For example, competitors may be able to circumvent our owned or licensed patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner. Even if our owned or licensed patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue with a scope broad enough to provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. We could also fail to take the required actions and pay the necessary governmental fees to maintain our patents. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, ownership, scope, term, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. For example, if we receive marketing approval for our product candidates, other pharmaceutical companies may seek approval of generic versions of our products with the FDA or regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. We may then be required to initiate proceedings against such companies in an attempt to prevent them from launching such generic versions. The risk of being involved in such proceedings is likely to increase if our products are commercially successful. In any such proceedings, the inventorship, ownership, scope, term, validity and enforceability of our patents may be challenged. These and other challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or freedom to operate or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to prevent others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products or from launching generic versions of our products, or could limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. The launch of a generic version of one of our products in particular would be likely to result in an immediate and substantial reduction in the demand for our product, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. 94 Table of Contents We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe or otherwise violate our patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or other violations, we may be required to file claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. Any such claims could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us, including claims alleging that we infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one or more of the patents we assert is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, construe the patent's claims narrowly or refuse to prevent the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology. Similarly, if we assert trademark infringement claims, a court may determine that the marks we have asserted are invalid or unenforceable or that the party against whom we have asserted trademark infringement has superior rights to the marks in question. In such a case, we could ultimately be forced to cease use of such marks. In any intellectual property litigation, even if we are successful, any award of monetary damages or other remedy we receive may not be commercially valuable. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and products and use our proprietary technologies without infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property and other proprietary rights of third parties. There is considerable intellectual property litigation in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. We may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology, including interference, derivation, re-examination, post-grant review, opposition, cancellation or similar proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or its foreign counterparts. The risks of being involved in such litigation and proceedings may also increase as our product candidates near commercialization and as we gain the greater visibility associated with being a public company. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing or future intellectual property rights. We may not be aware of all such intellectual property rights potentially relating to our product candidates and their uses. Thus, we do not know with certainty that Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate, or our intended commercialization thereof, does not and will not infringe or otherwise violate any third party's intellectual property. If we are found to infringe or otherwise violate a third party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third party to continue developing and marketing our products and technology or to continue using a trademark. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us and could require us to make substantial licensing and royalty payments. We could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent or other intellectual property right. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties could expose us to similar liabilities and have a similar negative impact on our business. 95 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that we or our employees have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. Many of our employees and contractors were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees and contractors do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees or contractors have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's or contractor's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the conception or development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact conceives or develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Moreover, because we acquired rights to Fovista from Eyetech, Archemix and Nektar, we must rely on these parties' practices, and those of their predecessors, with regard to the assignment of intellectual property therein. Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Intellectual property litigation could cause us to spend substantial resources and could distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development activities or any future sales, marketing or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to conduct such litigation or proceedings adequately. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. We cannot guarantee that we have executed such agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our trade secrets. Moreover, because we acquired certain rights to Fovista from Eyetech, Archemix and Nektar, we must rely on these parties' practices, and those of their predecessors, with regard to the protection of Fovista-related trade secrets before we 96 Table of Contents acquired them. Any party with whom we or they have executed a non-disclosure and confidentiality agreement may breach that agreement and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Our proprietary information may also be obtained by third parties by other means, such as breaches of our physical or computer security systems. Detecting the disclosure or misappropriation of a trade secret and enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate it, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval and Other Legal Compliance Matters If we are not able to obtain, or if there are delays in obtaining, required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates, including Fovista and Zimura, and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their design, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain marketing approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate. We have not received approval to market Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate from regulatory authorities in any jurisdiction. We have only limited experience in filing and supporting the applications necessary to gain marketing approvals and expect to rely on third-party CROs to assist us in this process. Securing marketing approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate's safety and efficacy. Securing marketing approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the regulatory authorities. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may determine that Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop is not effective, is only moderately effective or has undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that preclude our obtaining marketing approval or prevent or limit commercial use. The FDA or other regulatory authority may limit the approval of Fovista to use with only specified anti-VEGF drugs rather than with all anti-VEGF drugs. Such limitation could limit sales of Fovista. The process of obtaining marketing approvals, both in the United States and abroad, is expensive, may take many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in marketing approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent marketing approval of a product candidate. Any marketing approval we ultimately obtain may 97 Table of Contents be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. Marketing approval of novel product candidates such as Fovista and Zimura manufactured using novel manufacturing processes can be more expensive and take longer than for other, more well-known or extensively studied pharmaceutical or biopharmaceutical products, due to regulatory agencies' lack of experience with them. We believe that the FDA has only granted marketing approval for one aptamer product to date. This lack of experience may lengthen the regulatory review process, require us to conduct additional studies or clinical trials, increase our development costs, lead to changes in regulatory positions and interpretations, delay or prevent approval and commercialization of these product candidates or lead to significant post-approval limitations or restrictions. If we experience delays in obtaining approval or if we fail to obtain approval of Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop, the commercial prospects for such product candidate may be harmed and our ability to generate revenues will be materially impaired. A fast track designation or grant of priority review status by the FDA may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. In the United States, our lead product candidate, Fovista, received fast track designation and may be eligible for priority review status. If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this disease or condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA fast track designation. If a drug offers major advances in treatment, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA priority review status. The FDA has broad discretion whether or not to grant fast track designation or priority review status, so even if we believe a particular product candidate is eligible for such designation or status, the FDA could decide not to grant it. Even though Fovista has received fast track designation for the treatment of wet AMD and may be eligible for priority review status, we may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. The FDA may withdraw fast track designation if it believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program. Failure to obtain marketing approval in international jurisdictions would prevent our product candidates from being marketed abroad. In order to market and sell Fovista, Zimura and any other product candidate that we develop in the European Union and many other jurisdictions, we or our third- party collaborators must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ substantially from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States generally includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that the product be approved for reimbursement before the product can be approved for sale in that country. We or these third parties may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for marketing approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. 98 Table of Contents Any product candidate, including Fovista and Zimura, for which we obtain marketing approval could be subject to post-marketing restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved. Any product candidate, including Fovista and Zimura, for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, cGMP requirements relating to manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance, complaints and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. Even if marketing approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or may be subject to significant conditions of approval. The FDA may also impose requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product, including the adoption and implementation of risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs to ensure drugs are marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling and regulatory requirements. The FDA imposes stringent restrictions on manufacturers' communications regarding off-label use and if we do not restrict the marketing of our products only to their approved indications, we may be subject to enforcement action for off-label marketing. Violations of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to the promotion of prescription drugs may lead to investigations alleging violations of federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, as well as state consumer protection laws. In addition, later discovery of previously unknown adverse events or other problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may yield various results, including: •restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; •restrictions and warnings in the labeling and marketing of a product; •restrictions on product distribution or use; •requirements to conduct post-marketing clinical trials; •warning or untitled letters; •withdrawal of the products from the market; •refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; •recall of products; •fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenue; •suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals; •refusal to permit the import or export of our products; •product seizure; or •injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Non-compliance with European Union requirements regarding safety monitoring or pharmacovigilance can also result in significant financial penalties. Similarly, failure to comply with the 99 Table of Contents European Union's requirements regarding the protection of personal information can lead to significant penalties and sanctions. Our relationships with customers and third-party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates, including Fovista, for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute any products for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: •the federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid; •the federal False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; •the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; •HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and its implementing regulations, also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; •the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; •the federal transparency requirements under the Health Care Reform Law and analogous state laws require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and physician ownership and investment interests; and •analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers. Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. 100 Table of Contents Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion of products from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. Recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of Fovista, Zimura or any other product candidate that we develop, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to generate revenue from, sell profitably or commercialize any product candidates, including Fovista and Zimura, for which we obtain marketing approval or products that we may develop or in-license. We expect that current laws, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products and could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively PPACA. Among the provisions of PPACA of importance to our potential products are the following: •an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents; •an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program; •expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance; •a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices; •extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability; •expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs; •expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; 101 Table of Contents •new requirements to report financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals; •a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; and •a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since PPACA was enacted. These changes included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post- approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, or in-licensed products, if any, may be. Governments outside the United States tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our revenues, if any. The pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is also subject to governmental control outside of the United States. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be harmed, possibly materially. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could harm our business. We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures and the handling, use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. From time to time and in the future, our operations may involve the use of hazardous and flammable materials, including chemicals and biological materials, and produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous materials, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We also could incur significant costs associated with civil or criminal fines and penalties for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in order to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These current or future laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions. 102 Table of Contents Further, with respect to the operations of our third-party contract manufacturers, it is possible that if they fail to operate in compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or properly dispose of wastes associated with our products, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, suffer reputational harm or experience a disruption in the manufacture and supply of our product candidates or products. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on David R. Guyer, M.D., our Chief Executive Officer, Samir Patel, M.D., our President, and Bruce Peacock, our Chief Financial and Business Officer, as well as the other principal members of our management, scientific and clinical teams. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, each of them may terminate their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain "key person" insurance for any of our executives or other employees. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, clinical, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. The loss of the services of our executive officers or other key employees could impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives and seriously harm our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Furthermore, replacing executive officers and key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to successfully develop, gain marketing approval of and commercialize products. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all, given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, our ability to pursue our growth strategy will be limited. We are rapidly expanding our development, regulatory and sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We are currently experiencing significant and rapid growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, particularly in the area of clinical development. Between January 1, 2013 and February 28, 2014, we hired more than half of our 38 employees. We also expect to continue to hire additional employees and expand the scope of our operations in the area of clinical development and, as we approach potential marketing approval for any of our product candidates, in the area of sales, marketing and distribution. To manage our growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the inherent challenges associated with managing such rapid growth, we may not be able to manage effectively the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. 103 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders maintain the ability to control all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. As of February 28, 2014, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned shares representing approximately 61% of our capital stock. As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they would be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, these persons, if they choose to act together, would control the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company on terms that other stockholders may desire. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions: •provide for a classified board of directors such that only one of three classes of directors is elected each year; •allow the authorized number of our directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; •limit the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from the board of directors; •provide for advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our board of directors; •require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit actions by our stockholders by written consent; •limit who may call stockholder meetings; •authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a "poison pill" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; and •require the approval of the holders of at least 75% of the votes that all our stockholders would be entitled to cast to amend or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years 104 Table of Contents after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. Our shares of common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market on September 25, 2013. Given the limited trading history of our common stock, there is a risk that an active trading market for our shares will not be sustained, which could put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock and thereby affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares. The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for smaller pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, our stockholders may not be able to sell their shares of common stock at or above the price at which they purchased their shares. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: •the success of competitive products or technologies; •results of clinical trials of Fovista, Zimura and any other product candidate that we develop; •results of clinical trials of product candidates of our competitors; •regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries; •developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights; •the recruitment or departure of key personnel; •the level of expenses related to any of our product candidates or clinical development programs; •the results of our efforts to in-license or acquire the rights to other products, product candidates and technologies for the treatment of ophthalmic diseases, the costs of commercializing any such products and the costs of development of any such product candidates or technologies; •actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts; •variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; •changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; •market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; •general economic, industry and market conditions; and •the other factors described in this "Risk Factors" section. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. We also may face securities class-action litigation if we cannot obtain regulatory approvals for or if we otherwise fail to commercialize Fovista. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs to defend such claims and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. 105 Table of Contents A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. While a significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale, they may be sold into the market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of February 28, 2014, we had outstanding 33,318,575 shares of common stock. Of these shares, 21,816,564 shares are restricted securities under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, substantially all of which are subject to lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our initial public offering, a description of which, including certain exceptions thereto, is available in the registration statement filed in connection with such offering. These shares will be able to be sold beginning on March 24, 2014. Additionally, 19,516,995 of those shares are subject to lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our recent follow-on public offering but will be able to be sold beginning on May 12, 2014. Any of our remaining shares that are not restricted securities under Rule 144 under the Securities Act or subject to lock-up agreements, including, for example, shares sold in our initial public offering or this offering, may be resold in the public market without restriction unless purchased by our affiliates. Moreover, holders of an aggregate of 19,337,482 shares of our common stock, including shares issuable pursuant to outstanding warrants, have rights, subject to specified conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders, subject to waiver or expiration of the applicable lock-up agreements. In October 2013 and January 2014, we filed registration statements registering all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. As of February 28, 2014, we had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 3,754,000 share of our common stock, of which options to purchase approximately 1,046,000 were vested. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to volume, notice and manner of sale limitations applicable to affiliates and the applicable lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our public offerings. We are an "emerging growth company," and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and may remain an emerging growth company for up to five years. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include: •not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting; •not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements; •reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and •exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. 106 Table of Contents We have taken advantage of reduced reporting burdens in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In particular, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have not included all of the executive compensation related information that would be required if we were not an emerging growth company. We expect to continue, in our public reporting, to take advantage of some or all of the reporting exemptions available to emerging growth companies. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. In addition, the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to delay such adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and, as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for public companies that are not emerging growth companies. As a result of such election, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of other public companies. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is now required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices. As a public company, and particularly after we are no longer an "emerging growth company," we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Select Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We currently estimate that we will incur incremental annual costs, including costs for additional personnel, of approximately $2.0 million associated with operating as a public company, although it is possible that our actual incremental annual costs will be higher than we currently estimate. For as long as we remain an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies as described in the preceding risk factor. We may remain an emerging growth company until the end of the 2018 fiscal year, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time or if we have annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more in any fiscal year, we would cease to be an emerging growth company as of December 31 of the applicable year. We also would cease to be an emerging growth company if we issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. However, while we remain an emerging growth company, we will not be required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we will be engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and 107 Table of Contents improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, there is a risk that we will not be able to conclude, within the prescribed timeframe, or at all, that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. If we identify one or more material weaknesses, it could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be our stockholders' sole source of gain. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 