ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Many risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from economic change, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business WE OPERATE IN A BUSINESS THAT IS CYCLICAL AND WHERE DEMAND CAN BE VOLATILE, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We operate in a business that is cyclical and where demand can be volatile, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The timing and magnitude of the cycles in the business in which we operate are difficult to predict. Purchase prices for the raw materials we purchase (metal ore and scrap metal), and selling prices for our products (metal ore, scrap and recycled metal) are volatile and beyond our control. While we attempt to respond to changing raw material costs through adjustments to the sales price of our products, our ability to do so is limited by competitive and other market factors. Differences in economic conditions between the foreign markets, where we acquire our metal ore and a significant portion of our scrap metal, and the markets in the PRC, where we sell our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant reduction in selling prices for our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and adversely impact our ability to recover purchase costs from end customers. A decline in market prices for our products between the date of the sales order and shipment of the product may impact the customer’s ability to obtain letters of credit to cover the full sales amount. A decline in selling prices for our products coupled with customers failing to meet their contractual obligations may also result in a net realizable value adjustment to the average cost of inventory to reflect the lower of cost or fair market value. Additionally, changing prices could potentially impact the volume of raw materials available to us, the volume of ore and processed metal sold by us and inventory levels. The cyclical nature of our businesses tends to reflect and be amplified by changes in general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. For example, the automobile and construction industries typically experience cutbacks in production, resulting in decreased demand for steel, copper and aluminum. This can lead to significant decreases in demand and pricing for our metal ore and recycled metal. 10 OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON ADEQUATE SUPPLY AND AVAILABILITY OF METAL ORE AND SCRAP METAL. Our business requires metal ore and scrap metal that are sourced from third-party suppliers. We are affected by industry supply conditions, which generally involve risks beyond our control, including costs of these materials, transportation costs and market demand. As a result, we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of quality metal ore or scrap metal in a timely or cost-effective manner. If an adequate supply of scrap metal is not available to us, we would be unable to recycle metals at desired volumes, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON ADEQUATE SUPPLY AND AVAILABILITY OF ELECTRICITY, WHICH HAS RECENTLY BEEN CURTAILED BY THE CHINESE AUTHORITIES. We rely on electricity to operate equipment at the Facility. Our steel mill and other customers are also dependent on electricity to convert our recycled scrap metal into steel and other products. Accordingly, the successful operation of our business and the Facility requires a reliable supply of electricity. The PRC’s electricity industry has historically experienced shortages and price volatility as a result of a variety of factors, including surging demand as a result of rapid growth in the PRC and disruptions in the supply of coal used to produce electricity. In addition, the Chinese authorities mandated a significant reduction of energy usage and instituted “rolling brownouts” during the third and fourth quarters of 2010 in an effort to meet targets for energy consumption and emissions set by the 11th Five Year Plan (2006-2010). This policy adversely impacted our revenues in the end of third quarter and the entire fourth quarter of 2010 by reducing our ability to operate the Facility. The energy restrictions also negatively affected steel companies’ production thereby reducing the demand and prices for the metal ore we distributed and the processed scrap metal produced at the Facility. As a result, we experienced a decrease in revenues, which adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations for the third and fourth quarters of 2010. While the “rolling brownouts” restrictions has been eliminated with the implementation of the PRC’s 12th Five Year Plan (2011-2015) on January 1, 2011, there can be no assurances that additional energy use restrictions will not be imposed in the future. Any continuation of these restrictions will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also unable to predict whether other energy or environmental policies will be adopted by the Chinese government that could adversely impact our operations in future periods. UNEXPECTED EQUIPMENT FAILURES MAY LEAD TO PRODUCTION CURTAILMENTS OR SHUTDOWNS. If we suffer interruptions in our production capabilities, such interruptions will adversely affect our production costs, steel available for sales and revenues for the affected period, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to equipment failures, the Facility is also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as acts of god (including earthquakes and floods), fires, explosions, terrorism, public health pandemics and labor disputes. Our recycling processes are highly dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as shredders and cutting machines, as well as electrical equipment. This equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. We may in the future experience material shutdowns of the Facility or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures. Our shredding machine is highly complex and requires experienced and knowledgeable personnel to efficiently operate and maintain. Because we are in the early stages of operating this machine, we have experienced delays and inefficiencies due to our lack of operational experience with the machine. 11 THE FACILITY IS IN AN EARLY STAGE OF OPERATION AND IS NOT CURRENTLY OPERATING AT FULL PRODUCTION CAPABILITY We have only recently begun operations at the Facility and we are currently operating at significantly less than full production capacity. Our ability to achieve full production capacity is dependent upon, among other items, our ability to attract sufficient customers to purchase the scrap metal that we recycle and our ability to obtain raw materials at favorable prices to support our production. There can be no assurance that we will achieve full production capability at the Facility in the future. THE SCRAP METAL RECYCLING MARKETS IN WHICH WE OPERATE ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. COMPETITIVE PRESSURES FROM EXISTING AND NEW COMPANIES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The markets for scrap metal are highly competitive, both in the purchase of raw scrap and the sale of processed scrap. We compete to purchase raw scrap with numerous independent recyclers, large public scrap processors and smaller scrap companies. Successful procurement of materials is determined primarily by the price and promptness of payment for the raw scrap and the proximity of the Facility to the source of the unprocessed scrap. We occasionally face competition for purchases of unprocessed scrap from producers of steel products, such as integrated steel mills and mini-mills, which have vertically integrated their operations by entering the scrap metal recycling business. Many of these producers have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. Our operating costs could increase as a result of competition with these other companies for raw scrap. We compete in a global market with regard to the sale of processed scrap. Competition for sales of processed scrap is based primarily on the price, quantity and quality of the scrap metals, as well as the level of service provided in terms of consistency of quality, reliability and timing of delivery. To the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key factor, our ability to attract and retain consumers could be materially and adversely affected. Our scrap metal processing operations also face competition from substitutes for prepared ferrous scrap, such as pre-reduced iron pellets, hot briquetted iron, pig iron, iron carbide and other forms of processed iron. The availability of substitutes for ferrous scrap could result in a decreased demand for processed ferrous scrap, which could result in lower prices for such products. UNANTICIPATED DISRUPTIONS IN OUR SCRAP METAL RECYCLING OPERATIONS OR SLOWDOWNS BY OUR SHIPPING COMPANIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO DELIVER OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION, AND OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR CONSUMERS. Our ability to process and fulfill orders and manage inventory depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the Facility. In addition, our products are usually transported to consumers by third-party truck, rail carriers and vessel services. As a result, we rely on the timely and uninterrupted performance of these third party shipping companies. Due to factors beyond our control, including changes in fuel prices, political events, governmental regulation of transportation, changes in market rates, carrier availability and disruptions in transportation infrastructure, we may be forced to increase our charges for transportation services. Consequently, we may not be able to transport our products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Any interruption in our operations or interruption or delay in transportation services could cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, goods to be returned or receipt of goods to be refused. As a result, any disruption could negatively impact our relationships with our customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 DURING UNCERTAIN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, CUSTOMERS MAY BE UNABLE TO FULFILL THEIR CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS. We enter into sales contracts preceded by negotiations that include fixing price, quantities, shipping terms and other contractual elements. Upon finalization of these terms and satisfactory completion of other contractual contingencies by us, our customers typically open a letter of credit to satisfy their obligation under the contract prior to shipment by us. In many instances, and particularly during uncertain economic conditions, we are at risk on consummating the transaction until our customers successfully obtain the letter of credit. As a result, the customer may not be able to fulfill its obligation under the contract in times of illiquid market conditions. Moreover, as described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, suppliers and customers in the PRC often breach contracts and there may be inadequate recourse for us to enforce such agreements. IF WE WERE TO LOSE ORDER VOLUMES FROM ANY OF OUR MAJOR CUSTOMERS, OUR SALES WOULD DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY AND OUR CASH FLOWS WOULD BE REDUCED, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. In 2011, our largest customers purchased products from us on a spot or short term contract basis and in the future may choose not to continue to purchase our products. A loss of order volumes from any major customer, or a significant reduction in their purchase orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we experience such a loss of order volumes or significant reduction in purchase orders, we would likely be required to increase borrowings under our credit facilities to meet our cash flow needs., WE WILL NEED ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO FUND WORKING CAPITAL AND THE POTENTIAL EXPANSION OF THE FACILITY. ADDITIONAL CAPITAL RAISING EFFORTS IN FUTURE PERIODS IS LIKELY TO BE DILUTIVE TO OUR THEN CURRENT SHAREHOLDERS OR RESULT IN INCREASED INTEREST EXPENSE IN FUTURE PERIODS. We will need to raise additional capital to increase the volume of our purchases of metal ore that we trade and distribute. Moreover, if we decide to expand the capacity of the Facility, we will also need additional capital to fund that expansion. Our future capital requirements depend on a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the scope of our expansion efforts and the amount of available metal ore, our ability to manage growth and expansion and our ability to control expenses. In the event we seek to raise additional capital through the issuance of debt or its equivalents, this will result in increased interest expense. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our company held by existing shareholders will be reduced and those shareholders may experience significant dilution. As we will generally not be required to obtain the consent of our shareholders if we elect to expand the Facility or to purchase more raw materials required in our operations, shareholders are dependent upon the sole discretion and judgment of our management in determining the number of, and characteristics of, stock issued to raise funds for these purposes and others. In addition, new securities may contain certain rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the working capital as needed in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any inability to raise capital as needed would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. CERTAIN AGREEMENTS TO WHICH WE ARE A PARTY AND WHICH ARE MATERIAL TO OUR OPERATIONS LACK VARIOUS LEGAL PROTECTIONS WHICH ARE CUSTOMARILY CONTAINED IN SIMILAR CONTRACTS PREPARED IN THE UNITED STATES. Our subsidiaries include companies organized under the laws of the PRC and which conduct all of their business and operations in the PRC and Hong Kong. We are a party to certain contracts related to our operations in the PRC and Hong Kong. While these contracts contain the basic business terms of the agreements between the parties, these contracts do not contain certain clauses which are customarily contained in similar contracts prepared in the United States. These clauses include representations and warranties of the parties, confidentiality and non-compete clauses, provisions outlining events of defaults and termination provisions. In addition, remedies and dispute resolution mechanisms in our contracts are typically vague, rendering enforcement of these contracts difficult. Because our contracts in the PRC omit these customary clauses, notwithstanding the differences in Chinese and U.S. laws, we may not have the same legal protections as we would if the contracts contained these additional clauses. We anticipate that our Chinese and Hong Kong subsidiaries will likely enter into contracts in the future which will likewise omit these customary legal protections. While we have not been subject to any material adverse consequences as a result of the omission of these customary clauses, and we generally consider the contracts to which we are a party to contain all the material terms of our business arrangements with the other party, future events may occur which lead to a dispute which could have been avoided if the contracts included customary clauses in conformity with U.S. standards. Contractual disputes which may arise from this lack of legal protection could divert management's time from the operation of our business, require us to expend funds attempting to settle a possible dispute, limit the time our management would otherwise devote to the operation of our business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AND THE LOSS OF THEIR SERVICES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our future performance depends substantially on the services of our senior management and other key personnel, as well as our ability to retain and motivate them. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, including a Chairman and CEO, or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we entered into a three-year employment agreement with Kexuan Yao, our Chairmen of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer and pursuant to such employment agreement we will purchase on the life of Kexuan Yao up to $50 million of key man life insurance with the Company as the beneficiary of the death benefit, we cannot guarantee that these measures will sufficiently secure Kexuan Yao’s services with us or remedy the loss of the services of Kexuan Yao if that occurs. Our business depends on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. IF OUR CUSTOMERS DO NOT COMPLY WITH THEIR EXISTING COMMERCIAL CONTRACTS AND COMMITMENTS, IT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Most consumers of the metals products we sell have been adversely impacted by the global recession and related economic downturn. Many of our customers have experienced reductions in their operations. Prices for many of the metals products we sell have declined, in some instances substantially. These factors have contributed to attempts by some of our customers to seek renegotiation or cancellation of their existing purchase commitments. In addition, some of our customers have breached previously agreed upon contracts to buy our products by refusing delivery of the products. Where appropriate, we will in the future pursue litigation to recover our damages resulting from customer contract defaults, although the success of any such litigation and our ultimate ability to recover for contractual breaches is uncertain. If a large number of our customers were to default on their existing contractual obligations to purchase our products, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related To Doing Business in the PRC A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR ASSETS AND OPERATIONS ARE LOCATED IN THE PRC AND ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGES RESULTING FROM THE POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC POLICIES OF THE PRC GOVERNMENT. Our business operations could be restricted by the political environment in the PRC. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since 1949 and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. In recent years, however, the government has introduced reforms aimed at creating a "socialist market economy" and policies have been implemented to allow business enterprises greater autonomy in their operations. Changes in the political leadership of the PRC may have a significant effect on laws and policies related to the current economic reform programs, the other policies affecting business and the general political, economic and social environment in the PRC, including the introduction of measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad, and foreign investment. The PRC's economy has experienced significant growth in the past decade, although growth has recently been slowing. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation or increases of such disparities could affect the political or social stability of the PRC. 14 Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffective, there are no assurances that: • the Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; • economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; • policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; or • operations in the PRC will not become subject to the risk of nationalization. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the PRC, the future direction of these economic reforms is uncertain and the uncertainty may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to capitalize on these economic reforms, assuming the reforms continue. Because our business model is dependent upon the continued economic reform and growth in the PRC, any change in Chinese government policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if the Chinese government continues its policies of economic reform, there are no assurances that economic growth in the PRC will continue or that we will be able to take advantage of these opportunities in a fashion that will provide financial benefit to us. THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT EXERTS SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER THE MANNER IN WHICH OUR CHINESE SUBSIDIARIES MUST CONDUCT THEIR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. The PRC has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions of the PRC, and could require us to operate our business differently, including by requiring us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in our Chinese subsidiaries. FLUCTUATION IN THE VALUE OF THE RENMINBI (RMB) MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON YOUR INVESTMENT. The change in value of the RMB, the main currency in the PRC, against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. Under the current PRC policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This policy has resulted in the appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Because a significant portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in RMB, any potential future revaluation could further increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 RESTRICTIONS ON CURRENCY EXCHANGE LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO RECEIVE AND USE OUR REVENUES EFFECTIVELY. WE MAY NOT HAVE READY ACCESS TO CASH ON DEPOSIT IN BANKS IN THE PRC. Because a substantial portion of our revenues are in the form of RMB, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside the PRC or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to government approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that we could have ready access to the cash should we wish to transfer it to bank accounts outside the PRC nor can we be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. As a result, we may suffer delays in our ability to meet our obligations outside the PRC and may be required to seek additional amounts of borrowings to fund our operations outside the PRC. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ENFORCE OUR RIGHTS DUE TO POLICIES REGARDING THE REGULATION OF FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN THE PRC. The PRC's legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedent, unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. The PRC does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion and variation, and may be subject to influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. The PRC's regulations and policies with respect to foreign investments are evolving. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been published. Statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broad interpretation and discretion and to be modified, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. The uncertainties regarding such regulations and policies present risks which may affect our current operations and future plans in the PRC and elsewhere. If we are unable to enforce any legal rights we may have under our contracts or otherwise, our ability to compete with other companies in the steel industry and the other industries in which we compete could be severely limited. As a consequence, we would experience a loss of revenue in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. BECAUSE THERE IS LIMITED BUSINESS AND LITIGATION INSURANCE COVERAGE AVAILABLE IN THE PRC, ANY BUSINESS DISRUPTION OR LITIGATION WE EXPERIENCE MIGHT RESULT IN OUR INCURRING SUBSTANTIAL COSTS AND DIVERTING SIGNIFICANT RESOURCES TO HANDLE SUCH DISRUPTION OR LITIGATION. While business disruption insurance may be available to a limited extent in the PRC, we have determined that the risks of disruption and the difficulties and costs associated with acquiring such insurance render it commercially impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability or business disruption coverage for our operations in the PRC. Accordingly, any business disruption or litigation might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. CHINESE REGULATIONS RELATING TO OFFSHORE INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES BY CHINESE RESIDENTS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED BY OVERSEAS-LISTED COMPANIES MAY INCREASE OUR ADMINISTRATIVE BURDEN. IF OUR SHAREHOLDERS WHO ARE CHINESE RESIDENTS, OR OUR PRC EMPLOYEES WHO ARE GRANTED OR EXERCISE STOCK OPTIONS, FAIL TO MAKE ANY REQUIRED REGISTRATIONS OR FILINGS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO DISTRIBUTE PROFITS AND MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO LIABILITY UNDER CHINESE LAWS. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange ("SAFE") has promulgated regulations that require Chinese residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. Under the SAFE regulations, Chinese residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies will be required to register those investments. In addition, any Chinese resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE with respect to that offshore company regarding certain material changes to the capital of the offshore company. If any Chinese shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the Chinese subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company. In addition, the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into its Chinese subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under Chinese laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. 16 We cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are Chinese residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our Chinese resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our Chinese subsidiaries' ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-denominated loans used by our company. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas Listed Company (the "Stock Option Rule"), to regulate foreign exchange procedures for Chinese individuals participating in employee stock holding and stock option plans of overseas companies. Under the Stock Option Rule, a Chinese domestic individual must comply with various foreign exchange procedures through a domestic agent institution when participating in any employee stock holding plan or stock option plan of an overseas listed company. Certain domestic agent institutions, such as the Chinese subsidiaries of an overseas listed company, a labor union of such company that is a legal person or a qualified financial institution, among others things, shall file with SAFE and be responsible for completing relevant foreign exchange procedures on behalf of Chinese domestic individuals. These procedures include but are not limited to applying to obtain SAFE approval for exchanging foreign currency in connection with owning stock or stock option exercises. Concurrent with the filing of such applications with SAFE, the Chinese subsidiary, as a domestic agent, must obtain approval from SAFE to open a special foreign exchange account at a Chinese domestic bank to hold the funds in connection with the stock purchase or option exercise, any returns based on stock sales, any stock dividends issued and any other income or expenditures approved by SAFE. Chinese subsidiaries are also required to obtain approval from SAFE to open an overseas special foreign exchange account at an overseas trust bank to hold overseas funds used in connection with any stock purchase. Under the Stock Option Rule, all proceeds obtained by Chinese domestic individuals from sales of stock shall be fully remitted back to the PRC after relevant overseas expenses are deducted. The foreign exchange proceeds from these sales can be converted into RMB or transferred to the individual's foreign exchange savings account after the proceeds have been remitted back to the special foreign exchange account opened at the Chinese domestic bank. If the stock option is exercised in a cashless exercise, the Chinese domestic individuals are required to remit the proceeds to the special foreign exchange account. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted stock options are subject to this Stock Option Rule. If we or our Chinese employees holding options fail to comply with these regulations, we or our employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. FUTURE INFLATION IN THE PRC MAY INHIBIT ECONOMIC ACTIVITY IN THE PRC. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation in the future could cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in the PRC. Any actions by the Chinese government to regulate growth and contain inflation could have the effect of limiting our ability to operate our business in future periods. 17 Risks Related To Our Stock Performance OUR STOCK PRICE IS HIGHLY VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our common stock may be highly volatile for factors that are specific to our company. These factors include but are not limited to our low public float, that we have a controlling shareholder, our recent financial performance and the heightened regulatory scrutiny that certain companies with significant operations in China are experiencing in the United States. These and other factors could cause the market price for our shares to change substantially. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management's attention and resources. Moreover, the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, the market price for our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price for our common stock or trading volume to decline. Furthermore, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY ESTABLISHING ADEQUATE MANAGEMENT, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL CONTROLS IN THE PRC. Our personnel employed in China are generally unfamiliar Western styles of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which include sufficient corporate governance, internal controls and computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC, as we compete for global talent with larger and more well funded enterprises. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulties in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards and applicable law in connection with our operations and our potential future acquisitions, if any. Therefore, we are likely to experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE UNITED STATES FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT COULD SUBJECT US TO PENALTIES AND OTHER ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have implemented these policies through our Code of Conduct. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. While we make every effort to comply with FCPA and our Company Code of Conduct, we can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Risks Related to our Securities PROVISIONS OF OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS MAY DELAY OR PREVENT A TAKEOVER WHICH MAY NOT BE IN THE BEST INTERESTS OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects, which include when and by whom special meetings of our stockholders may be called, and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt. In addition, certain provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes also may be deemed to have certain anti-takeover effects which include that control of shares acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds will not possess any voting rights unless these voting rights are approved by a majority of a corporation's disinterested stockholders. Further, our Articles of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors in their sole discretion. Our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue series of preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. OUR CONTROLLING SECURITY HOLDERS MAY TAKE ACTIONS THAT CONFLICT WITH YOUR INTERESTS. Our officers and directors beneficially own approximately 45.4% in the aggregate of our common stock. In this case, all of our officers and directors together will then likely be able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our Articles of Incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions, and they will have significant control over our management and policies. The directors elected by these security holders will be able to significantly influence decisions affecting our capital structure. This control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other security holders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 