Risk factors — We have accessed a variety of film production incentives and subsidies offered by foreign countries and the United States which reduce our production costs. If these incentives and subsidies become less accessible to us or our production partners, or if they are eliminated, modified, denied or revoked for any reason, our production costs could substantially increase.” Talent Over the years, we have been able to attract a highly talented and diverse group of actors and actresses to star in our MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming. Our programming has included such actors as Jon Voight, Robert Duvall, Sigourney Weaver, Glenn Close and Patrick Stewart. Recently, as we have produced more diversified content, we have been able to attract actors such as Katherine Heigl, Sean Astin, Mira Sorvino and Zooey Deschanel. We expect to continue engaging well-known talented actors and actresses to star in our productions without compromising our production costs and operating budget. Sales and distribution Our sales force continuously makes presentations to broadcast and cable networks worldwide in order to generate orders for both our new productions and existing content from our film library. Our content is licensed on either an individual or multi-picture basis, depending on the needs of the distribution platform. Recent sales have included several multi-film agreements for licensing of new content. The majority of our new productions automatically qualify for inclusion in several of our existing international distribution agreements with European broadcast and cable networks, providing secured foreign market distribution. Twice a year, we attend large sales conferences in Cannes, France. These conferences bring together buyers and sellers from around the world. We produce various marketing and sales materials for these events and host numerous meetings with prospective clients. 3 Table of Contents Customers Our customers include a variety of domestic broadcast and cable networks, such as ABC, NBC, CBS, the Hallmark Channel, Lifetime, Syfy and Spike TV, as well as large international broadcasters, including Antena-3, M6, PROSIEBEN-SAT1, Seven Network, Sky and TF1. In addition, our on-going new production and extensive library provide us with the ability to exploit new business opportunities beyond our traditional distribution channels. Seasonality Our revenue and operating results are seasonal in nature. A significant portion of the films that we develop, produce and distribute are delivered to the broadcast and cable networks in the second half of each year. Typically, programming for a particular year is ordered either late in the preceding year or in the early portion of the current year. Planning and production generally takes place during the spring and summer and completed film projects are generally delivered in the third and fourth quarters of each year. As a result, our first, second and third quarters of our fiscal year typically have less revenue than the fourth quarter of such fiscal year. Importantly, the results of one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for the next or any future quarter. See “Risk Factors — Risks related to our business — Delays and changed delivery dates have had a material impact on the timing of our revenue recognition and receipt of cash, which has affected our financial results and ultimately has decreased the value of our stock price.” 2008 through 2009 — Quarterly Revenues as a Percentage of Total Revenue Intellectual property Our most valuable assets are our intellectual property and other legal rights to our film library, including our copyright ownership and interests therein. We currently conduct an active program to maintain and protect our intellectual property and other legal rights in the United States and abroad including the timely registration and recordation of our copyright interests with the United States Copyright Office and our trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Copyright laws of the United States and most other countries provide substantial civil and criminal penalties for unauthorized duplication and exhibition of our films. As necessary, we will take appropriate and reasonable measures to secure, protect and maintain copyright protection for all of our pictures under the laws of the applicable jurisdictions. 4 Table of Contents Many foreign countries are signatories to the Berne Convention, and we, therefore, expect that our intellectual property rights are protectable in those countries. However, certain other foreign countries do not have laws which protect United States holders of intellectual property rights equivalent to the laws of the United States, and, therefore, our rights may be difficult to enforce, or may be unenforceable in those countries. Competition The developing, producing and distributing of MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming is a highly competitive business. The most important competitive factors include quality, subject matter and timeliness of delivery. Our primary competitors in MFT movie content include Disney/ABC International Television, CBS Paramount International Television, Sony Pictures Television International and Warner Brothers International Television Distribution. Similarly, there are numerous companies that develop, produce and distribute mini-series content. They are, among others, A&E International, CBS Paramount International Television, Disney/ABC International Television, HBO, NBC Universal International Television Distribution and Warner Brothers International Distribution. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had 80 full-time employees with 72 employed in the United States, six in the United Kingdom and two in Australia. In addition, we have numerous independent contractors and consultants in creative, marketing and production areas. Recent Developments Market conditions confronting the media and entertainment industry have continued to be a challenge for us. The business environment deteriorated substantially beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and remained challenging throughout all of 2009. Specifically, total revenue in 2009 declined significantly as compared to prior years. This was primarily due to 2009 fourth quarter sales activity falling dramatically short of our expectations as well as fourth quarter revenue from the prior year. As a result of the significant weakening of our financial position, results of operations and liquidity in 2009, we are currently in default of certain covenants of our senior secured facilities and in discussions with our lenders regarding a restructuring of our senior secured credit facilities. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully restructure our debt obligations. If we are unsuccessful in restructuring our debt obligations or unable to come to a consensual agreement with our creditors, we will likely be required to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We have retained the services of outside advisors to assist us in instituting and implementing a restructuring transaction. See “Risk Factors — Risks related to our business — We expect to pursue a strategic restructuring, refinancing or other transaction in order to preserve our long-term financial condition, and current market conditions could limit our ability to consummate such a transaction, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.” Even if we are successful in coming to a consensual agreement with some or all of our creditors, any such restructuring would likely involve a filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and any such filing would result in our current equityholders receiving little or no continuing interest in the Company. See “Risk Factors — Risks related to investments in our common stock — If we seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, all of our outstanding shares of capital stock would likely be cancelled and holders of our capital stock would not be entitled to any payment in respect of their shares.” The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets, and liquidation of liabilities in the ordinary course of business, and do not reflect adjustments that might result if the Company were unable to continue as a going concern. In addition, any filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code will likely result in substantial changes to amounts recorded in our financial statements for periods after the date of such filing. 5 Table of Contents In connection with the discussion above, certain recent events, which are summarized below, have occurred over the last several months. • We have incurred net losses from operations and net operating cash outflows in each of the past four years and at December 31, 2009 have an accumulated deficit of $287.3 million. Our inability to borrow under our revolving credit facility, coupled with other factors described above, has resulted in liquidity constraints and an inability to pay some of our obligations as they come due. The liquidity constraints are also preventing us from making certain expenditures to continue producing and acquiring as many films as we could have otherwise. As a result, we decreased our production slate for 2009, reduced our selling, general and administrative expenses through cost-cutting measures that included, among others, job reductions and we expect to take additional steps to preserve liquidity. However, despite any additional cost-saving steps we may implement, unless we successfully restructure our debt and/or obtain other sources of liquidity and generate sufficient revenue and cash flows from operations, we will not have the resources to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such endeavors. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm included elsewhere in this Annual Report contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of the foregoing, we engaged Rothschild, Inc. as a financial advisor in the fourth quarter of 2009, and are in the midst of in-depth discussions with our first and second lien lenders with respect to restructuring our indebtedness and capital structure. We expect these discussions to likely result in a significant or complete dilution of our existing equityholders’ interest through an issuance of preferred stock or common stock to some or all of our lenders and/or creditors. It is also possible that these discussions could result in a sale of some or all of the Company’s assets for less than their book value. No assurance can be given as to whether these discussions will be successful. If we are not successful in restructuring our debt obligations or unable to come to a consensual agreement with our creditors, we will likely be required to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Even if we are successful in coming to a consensual agreement with some or all of our creditors, any such restructuring would likely involve a filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and any such filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would result in our current equityholders receiving little or no continuing interest in the Company. • We are currently in default under both our first lien and second lien senior secured credit facilities. On December 23, 2009, we acknowledged defaults on the first lien facilities resulting from (x) an over-advance on our revolver due to a reduction in our borrowing base and consequent failure to make mandatory prepayment to cure, and (y) a failure to pay settlement amounts payable and due upon the termination of our interest rate swaps on December 22, 2009. On February 12, 2010, we acknowledged a default on the second lien facility resulting from our failure to make a scheduled interest payment. On December 23, 2009, we entered into a forbearance agreement with the first lien agent and lenders holding a majority in principal amount of the loans under our first lien credit facilities and swap counterparties. That forbearance agreement was subsequently amended and extended on January 22, 2010 and again on March 5, 2010. On February 12, 2010, we entered into a separate forbearance agreement with the second lien agent and lenders holding a majority in principal amount of the loans under the second lien credit facility, which was subsequently amended and extended on March 5, 2010. Under each of these forbearance agreements, the agents and lenders (and in the case of the first lien forbearance, the swap counterparties) have agreed to forbear from exercising certain of their rights and agreed to waive some of the existing or prospective defaults until March 31, 2010 unless such forbearance agreement is earlier terminated due to further unanticipated defaults or other factors. The forbearance agreements are short term arrangements that allow us to work with the agents and lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to develop a longer-term strategy for restructuring our liabilities. Under the forbearance agreements, we agreed, among other things, that: • we cannot borrow additional loans or issue additional letters of credit under the credit agreement governing our first lien credit facility; • default interest of 2% will accrue on all loans under the credit agreement governing our first and second lien credit facilities and on the swap settlement amounts, in addition to the rate of interest otherwise applicable; 6 Table of Contents • certain covenants under the credit agreement governing our first lien credit facility (including those relating to investments, restricted payments, permitted liens, asset sales, subsidiary guarantors, control agreements, and cash expenditures and distributions) will become more restrictive; • we will provide additional information to the lender and their counsel, including among other things a cash flow schedule that is updated weekly; • we will limit the amounts and timing of our cash expenditures to the amounts itemized in the cash flow schedule, subject to a variance; • we will maintain a minimum cash balance; and • we will provide monthly and year-to-date financial information and an updated draft valuation report of our film library. If we are not able to cure all defaults or enter into a new forbearance agreement for each of our credit facilities by March 31, 2010 (or any earlier date that the forbearance agreements may be terminated), then the agents and lenders under the respective credit facilities and swap counterparties may exercise all of their rights and remedies, including the acceleration of the loans and foreclosure on collateral. Upon the occurrence of such events, the Company would likely avail itself of the protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which would result in our current equityholders receiving little or no continuing interest in the Company. • On December 24, 2009, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ) notifying us that we are currently not in compliance with certain NASDAQ listing requirements, specifically the market value of publicly held shares and the minimum bid price. We have a grace period of 180 days to regain compliance, but we currently have not met the requirements to achieve compliance and can provide no assurance the we will achieve compliance. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to an investment in our common stock — We are currently not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ, which will likely result in the delisting of our common stock if we cannot regain compliance.” • We review the ultimate revenues associated with our films. This analysis considers various data points, including current market conditions, library sales activity, pricing, the delivery of our annual film slate and the results of the annual independent valuation of the unsold rights to our film library. This assessment, performed as of December 31, 2009, was completed in February of 2010. As a result of the continued weak market conditions, sales data, pricing and other factors present during the fourth quarter of 2009 and into 2010, as well as the significant decline in the annual independent valuation of the unsold rights to our film library, this analyses resulted in a significant reduction of the ultimate revenues for the majority of films in our library. In addition, based upon a qualitative analysis and assessment of recent sales activity, we now assume that there will be no future revenues for certain films. A reduction in the ultimate revenue associated with a film results in a higher rate of amortization over that film’s remaining accounting life and causes a reduction in that film’s prospective profit margin. The reduction in ultimate revenues resulted in a decrease in the fair value of films to an amount below their net book value. As a result, impairment charges were recorded totaling $338.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 to reduce the net book value of those films to an amount approximating their fair value. In addition, the reduction in ultimate revenues resulted in a $1.1 million increase to film cost amortization for the year ended December 31, 2009 related to films for which revenue has been recognized during the period. Refer to Note 6 of our consolidated financial statements included herein. As referenced above, the annual third party valuation report of our film library required by our lenders under our first lien credit facility (the Valuation Report) was completed in March of 2010. The Valuation Report indicates a material and substantial reduction of approximately 50% of the non-contracted value of the films in our film library at December 31, 2009 as compared to the third party valuation at December 31, 2008 using similar methodologies. The decrease in the value of our film library directly and materially reduces the borrowing base governing the revolving credit facility under the First Lien Credit Agreement. This result of the Valuation Report is also a contributing factor our annual assessment of ultimate revenues. 7 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our business You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We are currently in default of our First Lien and Second Lien Credit Agreements and are in negotiations with our lenders to restructure our debt, which will likely result in significant dilution of our equity holders or extinguishment of our equityholders’ interest in our company. We expect to pursue a strategic restructuring, refinancing or other transaction in order to preserve our long-term financial condition, and current market conditions could limit our ability to consummate such a transaction, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our inability to borrow under our revolving credit facility, coupled with other factors described above, is causing liquidity constraints resulting in an inability to pay some of our obligations as they come due. The liquidity constraints are preventing us from making certain expenditures relating to new productions and acquisition of other content that would otherwise enhance our business. We decreased our production slate for 2009, reduced our selling, general and administrative expenses through cost-cutting measures that included among others, job reductions and we expect to take additional steps to preserve liquidity. However, despite any additional cost-saving steps we may implement, unless we successfully restructure our debt and/or obtain other sources of liquidity, we do not have the resources to continue as a going concern. As a result of the foregoing, we engaged Rothschild, Inc. as a financial advisor in the fourth quarter of 2009, and are in the midst of in depth discussions with our first and second lien lenders with respect to restructuring our indebtedness and capital structure. We expect these discussions to likely result in a significant or complete dilution of our existing equityholders through an issuance of preferred stock or common stock to some or all of our lenders and/or creditors. It is also possible that these discussions could result in a sale of some or all of the Company’s assets for less than their book value. No assurance can be given as to whether these discussions will be successful. If we are unsuccessful in restructuring our debt obligations or unable to come to a consensual agreement with our creditors, we will likely be required to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Even if we are successful in coming to a consensual agreement with some or all of our creditors, any such restructuring would likely involve a filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and any such filing would result in our current equityholders receiving little or no continuing interest in the Company. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and production partners. Because of our limited capital resources and current restructuring process described above, coupled with a history of losses and negative cash flows, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements found elsewhere in this Annual Report that expresses substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern (the “Going Concern Opinion”). The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets, and liquidation of liabilities in the ordinary course of business, and do not reflect adjustments that might result if the Company were unable to continue as a going concern. The Going Concern Opinion could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and production partners. If any of these customers or production partners lose confidence in our ability to perform as a going concern subsequent to a restructuring of our capital structure, our future results of operations could be adversely impacted. 8 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness and failure to comply with the financial covenants contained in the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities will likely have a continued material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. High levels of interest expense continue to have negative effects on our operations. As of December 31, 2009, all of our debt was variable rate and totaled $609.2 million outstanding. To manage the related interest rate risk, we entered into interest rate swap agreements. Until December 23, 2009, we had floating to fixed interest rate swaps outstanding in the notional amount of $435.0 million, effectively converting that amount of debt from variable rate to fixed rate. The interest rate swaps were amended in April 2009 and terminated on December 23, 2009 (refer to Note 11 of our consolidated financial statements included herein). As of December 31, 2009, we had $25.1 million cash on hand. See “Management Discussion & Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We are currently in default under both our first lien and second lien senior secured credit facilities. On December 23, 2009, we acknowledged defaults on the first lien facilities resulting from (x) an over-advance on our revolver due to a reduction in our borrowing base and consequent failure to make mandatory prepayment to cure, and (y) a failure to pay settlement amounts payable and due upon the termination of our interest rate swaps on December 22, 2009. On February 12, 2010, we acknowledged a default on the second lien facility resulting from our failure to make a scheduled interest payment. On December 23, 2009, we entered into a forbearance agreement with the first lien agent and lenders holding a majority in principal amount of the loans under our first lien credit facilities and swap counterparties. The forbearance agreements are short term arrangements that allow us to work with the agents and lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to develop a longer-term strategy for restructuring our liabilities. The forbearance agreement executed on December 23, 2009, has subsequently been amended and extended on January 22, 2010 and again on March 5, 2010. On February 12, 2010, we entered into a separate forbearance agreement with the second lien agent and lenders holding a majority in principal amount of the loans under the second lien credit facility, which was subsequently amended and extended on March 5, 2010. Under each of these forbearance agreements, the agents and lenders (and in the case of the first lien forbearance, the swap counterparties) have agreed to forbear from exercising certain of their rights and agree to waive some of the existing or prospective defaults until March 31, 2010 unless the forbearance agreement is earlier terminated due to further unanticipated defaults or other factors. If we are not able to cure all defaults or enter into a new forbearance agreement for each of our credit facilities by March 31, 2010 (or any earlier date that the forbearance agreements may be terminated), then the agents and lenders under the respective credit facilities and swap counterparties may exercise all of their rights and remedies, including acceleration of the loans and foreclosure on collateral. Upon the occurrence of such events, the Company would likely avail itself of the protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which would result in our current equityholders receiving little or no continuing interest in the Company. We have incurred net losses in the past and currently expect to experience continued net losses in the future. We have incurred net losses in the past largely due to amortization of film production costs, inclusive of impairment charges, and interest expense on our outstanding indebtedness. During the year ended December 31, 2009, impairment charges were recorded for the majority of our films totaling $338.9 million to reduce the net book value for those films to an amount approximating their fair value and film cost amortization was increased $1.1 million related to films for which revenue has been recognized during the period as a result of the reduction in (and elimination of) ultimate revenues from our annual review of ultimate revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2008, a non-cash impairment charge of $59.8 million with respect to goodwill was recorded as the result of our stock price declining significantly to a level implying a market capitalization below our book value. During the year ended December 31, 2007, a loss on extinguishment of debt was recorded with respect to the refinancing of our credit facilities. We have incurred accelerated film amortization and significant write-offs due to changes in our estimates of total revenue for each film. We use the individual film-forecast-computation method to amortize our capitalized film production costs. We are required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as we recognize 9 Table of Contents revenue from each of the associated films. The amount of film production costs that will be amortized depends on the amount of ultimate revenue we expect to receive from each film. If estimated ultimate revenue declines, amortization of capitalized film costs will be accelerated and future margins may be lower than expected. If estimated ultimate revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. Furthermore, we base our estimates of revenue on a variety of information, including recent sales data from domestic and major international licenses and other sources. If the estimates are not correct or are subsequently revisited, and our internal controls over such information do not detect such an error or the revisions are not applied in a timely manner, the amount of film production cost amortization that we record could be incorrect, which could result in fluctuations in our earnings. We review the ultimate revenues associated with our films. This analysis considers various data points, including current market conditions, library sales activity, pricing, the delivery of our annual film slate and the results of the annual independent valuation of the unsold rights to our film library. This assessment reflecting ultimate revenues as of December 31, 2009, was completed in February of 2010. As a result of the continued weak market conditions, sales data, pricing and other factors present during the fourth quarter of 2009 and into 2010 as well as the significant decline in the annual independent valuation of the unsold rights to our film library, this analyses resulted in a significant reduction of the ultimate revenues for the majority of films in our library. In addition, based upon a qualitative analysis and assessment of recent sales activity, we now assume that there will be no future revenues for certain films. A reduction in the ultimate revenue associated with a film results in a higher rate of amortization over that film’s remaining accounting life and causes a reduction in that film’s prospective profit margin. The reduction in ultimate revenues resulted in a decrease in the fair value of films to an amount below their net book value. As a result, impairment charges were recorded totaling $338.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 to reduce the net book value of those films to an amount approximating their fair value. Refer to Note 6 of our consolidated financial statements included herein. In addition, the reduction in ultimate revenues resulted in a $1.1 million increase to film cost amortization for the year ended December 31, 2009 related to films for which revenue has been recognized during the period. We principally operate in one business: the development, production and distribution of long-form television content; our lack of a diversified business could adversely affect us. We derive substantially all of our revenue from the development, production and distribution of MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming. Since we depend on demand for long-form television content, our financial condition would suffer significantly if audience demand for our product declines in the future. This demand is driven by the interests of the viewers and the financial strength of the various networks. Unlike our major competitors, which are divisions of major media companies that generate revenue from a variety of other operations, we depend primarily on the success of our MFT movies and mini-series. In recent years, the major U.S. broadcast networks migrated away from airing long-form television programs in favor of reality and other programming. If a new type of content becomes popular in the television entertainment industry, or the networks or other buyers of our content perceive changes in audience demand for our content, the ability to license our MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming either domestically or internationally may be negatively impacted and we may suffer significant financial losses. We must continue to augment our film library with new titles from our annual production slate in order to maintain contracted cash flows generated by our film library, but managing our limited resources in the most efficient manner of late has resulted in a reduction in our production slate. We must continue to add to the existing titles in our film library. As audience tastes and demands change over time, some of our older content loses a portion of its licensing value. To meet market demand, we must continue to deliver new content that will achieve high ratings and increased viewership. If we do not augment our film library with new content that will meet market and audience demand, our film library cash flow will decrease and negatively impact our profits. Given our current financial position and liquidity concerns, we will likely produce fewer new films and we have asked our production partners to finance a significant portion of the cost of each new production without short-term financial support from us. If our production partners cannot finance a substantial portion of a film’s cost through the use of new or existing credit facilities of their own, we will not develop or 10 Table of Contents produce that film. As a result, the number of films in our new production slate may be further reduced, which would likely have an adverse impact on our production revenue and the contracted cash flows generated by our film library. In addition, the size of our film library is expected to decrease over time due to the expiration of our distribution rights to certain titles in our film library. Although we own the distribution rights in perpetuity for the majority of titles in our library, our rights to approximately 34% of the titles in our film library will ultimately expire. By December 31, 2012, our intellectual property rights to 52 of our films, or approximately 5% of our existing titles, will terminate. Therefore, we must continue to develop, produce and distribute new content in an effort to replenish the titles available for distribution and to sustain our business model. Our success depends on our ability to develop, produce and distribute quality MFT movies and mini-series that achieve acceptance from our target audiences. An uncertainty always exists with the production of television content whose success is subject to viewer tastes and preferences that can change in unpredictable ways. Generally, the popularity of our programs depends on many factors, including the critical acclaim they receive, the genre, the specific subject matter, the actors and other key talent and the format of their initial release. To respond to market demand, we have developed and produced film content outside of our traditional genres, including a number of action/thriller MFT movies targeted at a younger 18-34 year old demographic. We cannot assure you that there will continue to be a demand for these action/thriller movies in broadcast television, PPV and/or home video platforms. In addition, to respond to future market demand, we may need to produce genres that we lack experience in delivering. We cannot assure you that this programming will achieve high ratings. The delivery of a MFT movie or mini-series that does not achieve high ratings can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in at least three ways. First, we rely heavily on our ability to license our original productions several times, but the receipt of low ratings for a particular MFT movie or mini-series will hinder our ability to re-license that program to another customer in the future. Second, the initial customer may decide against licensing the rights to any of our future MFT movies or mini-series due to the lack of profitability from the prior production. Third, one or more MFT movies or mini-series that do not achieve high ratings may cause a negative impact to our reputation and could also cause our significant customers to look to one of our competitors to fulfill their long-form television programming needs. We are seeking to renegotiate payment terms and certain rights under several distribution license agreements. Our production partners have financed a substantial portion of the cost for each 2009 film through the use of new or existing credit facilities of their own. In connection with these financings, we have consented to our production partners pledging as collateral the associated distribution contracts they have with us. To address liquidity constraints, we are currently renegotiating several of our 2009 slate distribution contracts with our production partners and/or their financing sources in an effort to defer or restructure certain payments under those contracts which have already come due or will come due in the near term. If we are unsuccessful in renegotiating the amounts owed by us under these contracts, we will be expected to pay amounts that will exacerbate our liquidity concerns. In addition, non payment of amounts due under these agreements could result in the termination of our licensing rights to these films, affect the future working relationship with certain production partners and/or require us to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which would result in our current equityholders receiving little or no continuing interest in the Company. We have a significant concentration of our revenue from a limited number of licensees. In 2009, approximately 73% of our revenue was earned from our top ten customers, with approximately 20% from Lifetime, 16% from broadcast and cable channels affiliated with Universal Television (NBC, Syfy and Universal Television’s international channels) and 5% from the Hallmark Channel. As a percentage of our total original MFT movies and mini-series productions licensed to broadcast and cable networks, the Hallmark Channel comprised approximately 28% in 2007, 11% in 2008 and 27% in 2009. A disruption to, or termination of, our relationship with any of our significant licensees could cause our company to suffer significant financial losses. 11 Table of Contents Additionally, as of December 31, 2009, approximately $78.3 million, or 87%, of the Company’s accounts receivable was due from our top ten customers. Because the licensing of our content for network and cable television is highly concentrated, an adverse change in our relationship with any of our significant customers or an adverse change in the financial condition of our customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. In March 2010, Crown Media, the parent company of the Hallmark Channel, filed its Annual Report on Form 10K with the SEC. The report of Crown Media’s independent registered public accounting firm on their 2009 financial statements contains an explanatory paragraph noting the significant short-term debt obligations of Crown Media which raise substantial doubt regarding Crown Media’s ability to continue as a going concern and referring to Crown Media’s plans in regard to those matters. Crown Media’s financial statements note, “... the Company believes the ability of the Company to continue its operations depends upon completion of the Recapitalization.” This proposed Recapitalization (described in detail in Crown Media’s Annual Report) has been approved by Crown Media and by Hallmark Cards, the substantial shareholder of Crown Media and the lender or guarantor on Crown Media’s short-term debt that would be refinanced under the proposed recapitalization. Based upon our discussions with Crown Media’s management and review of Crown Media’s Annual Report and other publicly available documents concerning the financial condition of Crown Media and the details of the proposed recapitalization transaction, we have concluded that a reserve against the accounts receivable due from Crown Media ($42.4 million at December 31, 2009) is not necessary. In 2009, we replaced Genius Products (Genius) as our domestic video distributor and entered into an agreement with Vivendi Entertainment (Vivendi) for video and digital distribution of our content requiring Vivendi to provide us with monthly royalty reports reflecting the financial performance of the titles included under the agreement along with monthly royalty payments. If Vivendi does not report or remit to us in a timely manner, if Vivendi experiences financial difficulties, or if Vivendi is not successful in distributing our content, it could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on third party licensees to promote, market and advertise our programming to their customer base in order to sustain high television ratings. We have licensed to broadcast and cable networks the right to air our long-form television content. We also license our content to other parties in order to take advantage of emerging distribution platforms. Licensed distributors’ decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of our television content are important in determining the success of our MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming. We do not control the timing and manner in which our customers distribute our productions. Because we rely on those with initial rights to our content to create a high-level of interest in our programming, any decision by them not to distribute or promote one of our productions or, instead, to promote our competitors’ television programs or related products more than they promote ours could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, upon the completion of a license term, we have the ability to re-license the same programming to another party. If during the initial license term, our programming does not enjoy high ratings, our ability to re-license these programs in the future will become difficult and our reputation and opportunity to license new programming may be adversely affected. We place significant reliance on third party production companies to produce our MFT movies and mini-series. Although we have a team of creative personnel who read scripts and evaluate talent, the filming, editing and final production of our films is primarily performed by third party producers and independent contractors. The success of our programming will depend to a degree on our ability and the ability of these third parties to avoid production problems and delays and to hire, retain and motivate top creative talent. Making films is an activity that requires the services of individuals, such as actors, directors and producers, each of whom have unique creative talents. If our production partners experience difficulty in hiring, retaining or motivating creative talent, the production of our films could be delayed or the success of our films could be adversely affected. If any of these partners were unable or unwilling to produce or assist in the production of our MFT movies and mini-series, we would have to expend significant time, money and resources to find another company to produce our content and we may not be able to meet our creative needs and timely completion of our content with a new production company. In 12 Table of Contents addition, our production partners finance a substantial portion of our films through the use of new or existing credit facilities of their own. Although a majority of the films are in production in the summer months so that they can be delivered late in the third quarter and during the fourth quarter, a portion of the funding for these films has been deferred to future periods to better match the cash inflows related to sales of this product. If our production partners cannot finance a substantial portion of a film’s cost through the use of new or existing credit facilities of their own, management will not develop or produce that film. As a result, the number of films produced may be further reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our production revenue and contracted cash flows generated from our film library. These risks are further exacerbated by our recent deferral of payments to production partners and other creditors, which may impair our relationship with such parties and would likely result in a more challenging environment to consummate new deals. Our business involves risks of liability claims for entertainment content, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As an owner and distributor of entertainment content, we may face potential liability for: • defamation; • invasion of privacy; • right of publicity or misappropriation; • actions for royalties and accountings; • breach of contract; • negligence; • copyright or trademark infringement (as discussed below); and • other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against broadcasters, producers and distributors of entertainment content. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on certain key employees. Our success greatly depends on our employees. In particular, we are dependent upon the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert Halmi, Jr., select members of our senior management and certain creative employees such as directors and producers. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Halmi, Jr. and with all of our top executive officers and production executives. However, although it is standard in the television industry to rely on employment agreements as a method of retaining the services of key employees, these agreements cannot assure us of the continued services of such employees. Although we carry key employee insurance for Mr. Halmi, Jr., the proceeds from an insurance payout would not compensate for the loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer’s creativity and knowledge of the long-form television business. The loss of Mr. Halmi, Jr.’s services or a substantial group of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Recent market conditions have negatively impacted our ability to sustain our production model of generating contractual sales and collecting a significant portion of our production costs in advance of the delivery of our content to an initial licensee. Historically, our production model has enabled us to contract for and collect license fees recouping the majority of our production costs for our MFT movies and mini-series before delivery of our content to an initial licensee. Although we intend to adhere to our general practice of commencing production when we have contracted license fees for a significant portion of our production costs, we cannot assure you that this will always be the case. Recent market conditions have resulted in a lower pre-sale percentage for our films, which has caused a substantial 13 Table of Contents negative impact to our revenues over the past two years than we have historically experienced. We may rely on an alternative means of revenue to recoup our production costs. We may determine that there are other ways of licensing our content, or our customers may change the way they license productions and such alternative methods may not include an upfront license fee that recoups a majority of our production costs before we deliver the content. However, we cannot assure you that these alternative means or methods will be available to us in the future which would continue to negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks relating to the international distribution of our films and related products. Because we have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue (44%, 37% and 59% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) from the exploitation of our films in territories outside of the United States, our business is subject to risks inherent in international trade, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: • laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes and changes in these laws; • differing cultural tastes and attitudes, including various censorship laws; • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; • financial instability and increased market concentration of buyers in foreign television markets; • the instability of foreign economies and governments; • fluctuating foreign exchange rates; and • war and acts of terrorism. The advancement of video technologies may cause advertisers to shift their expenditures to media in which their commercial messages are not circumvented by technology, leading to a reduction in television advertising and a reduction in demand for our programming. The entertainment industry in general and the television industry in particular continue to undergo significant technological developments. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our business. In particular, broadcast and cable networks place significant reliance on the revenue stream generated from commercial advertising. Since the introduction of video technology such as Digital Video Recording, or DVR, television audiences now have the ability to circumvent commercials while they view television programming, which could negatively impact advertising demand for the advertisers for our content, and could therefore adversely affect our revenue. Similarly, further increases in the use of portable devices that allow users to view content of their own choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements could adversely affect our revenue. If we cannot successfully exploit these and other emerging technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. This technology has impacted the Nielsen ratings, which advertisers utilize to determine the rates for advertising time which they purchase from the television networks. Lower Nielsen ratings may result in a decrease in the amount of advertising revenue received by the networks and the networks may not have sufficient cash flow to license our programming at favorable rates for us, or choose not to license our programming at all. We could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity. We do not have any union-represented employees within our company, but we do rely on members of the Screen Actors Guild, the Writers Guild of America, the Directors Guild of America and other guilds in connection with most of our productions. We are currently subject to collective bargaining agreements with these unions and, therefore, must comply with all provisions of those agreements in order to hire actors, directors or writers who are members of these guilds. Provisions in each labor contract with each of the Guilds obligate us to pay residuals to their members based on various criteria including the airing of films or cash collections. If we fail to pay such residuals to those entitled to receive them, any of the unions that represent our actors, writers and directors may have 14 Table of Contents the right to foreclose on the film giving rise to such residual in order to compensate its union members accordingly. Additionally, we may be adversely impacted by work stoppages or strikes. A halt or delay in negotiating a new industry-wide union contract, depending on the length of time involved, could lead to a strike by union members and cause delays in the development, production and completion of our films. Any new collective bargaining agreements may increase our expenses in the future. Business interruptions and disasters could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to outages and interruptions due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events beyond our control. In addition, we have a film vault located in California and a backup storage facility located in New Jersey. Our California film vault has, in the past, and may, in the future, be subject to earthquakes as well as electrical blackouts as a consequence of a shortage of available electrical power. Although we have developed certain plans to respond in the event of a disaster, there can be no assurance that such plans will be effective in the event of a specific disaster. In addition, we have business interruption insurance as well as property damage insurance to cover losses that stem from an event that could disrupt our business. However, films are unique in nature and cannot be easily reproduced. If our storage facilities were to suffer damage or destruction such that our films were no longer able to be licensed to third parties, our opportunity to generate revenue by re-licensing our content would be limited and would potentially impact our earnings and financial condition. We may incur significant expenses in order to protect and defend against intellectual property claims, including claims where others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. We currently own the rights to distribute more than 1,000 titles in our film library. As such, our success depends, in part, upon sufficient protection of our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that we have good title to each of the films in our library. Many of these films were produced by production companies that we hired, but others were acquired. Most notably, we acquired the domestic rights to approximately 550 titles from Crown Media in December 2006. Although the seller made representations that it had legal title to these films at the time of sale, we cannot be certain that legal title to these films was acquired when we consummated the acquisition. There can be no assurance that infringement or misappropriation claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from such claims) will not be asserted or prosecuted against us, or that any assertions or prosecutions will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Notwithstanding the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we would incur significant costs and diversion of resources with respect to the defense thereof, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license of a third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot provide any assurances, however, that under such circumstances a license would be available on reasonable terms or at all. We face a potential loss in the copyrighted works in our library if it is determined that authors or artists have a right to recapture rights to those works under the U.S. Copyright Act. Under the U.S. Copyright Act, authors and their heirs have a non-waiveable statutory right to terminate their earlier assignments and licenses in many copyrighted works by sending notice within a statutorily-defined window of time. The right of termination does not apply to copyrights in “works made for hire” which encompasses most of the copyrights we own. However, with respect to copyrights we license or to the extent that any of the works we have rights to are determined not to be “works made for hire,” a termination right may exist under the U.S. Copyright Act. These rights can provide authors and their heirs an opportunity to renegotiate new and more commercially advantageous arrangements. If that were to come to pass, our net revenue associated with those works could decrease. Our intellectual property rights may not be enforceable in certain foreign jurisdictions. We attempt to protect our proprietary and intellectual property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws as well as through licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and for limited durations. We rely on copyright laws to protect the works of authorship created by us or transferred to us via assignment or by operation of law as “works made for hire.” We 15 Table of Contents have generally recorded or registered our copyright and trademark interests in the United States. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws vary from country to country and the laws of some countries in which our productions are marketed may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do U.S. laws, or at all. Furthermore, although copyrights and trademarks that arise under United States and United Kingdom law will be recognized in most other countries (as most countries are signatories to the Berne Convention, the Universal Copyright Convention and the Madrid Protocol), we cannot guarantee that courts in other jurisdictions will afford our copyrights and trademarks the same treatment as do courts in the United States or the United Kingdom. Although we believe that our intellectual property is enforceable in most jurisdictions, we cannot guarantee such validity or enforceability. Competition within our industry could reduce our licensing revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. We operate in the highly competitive business of developing, producing and distributing long-form television programming. If we are unable to compete effectively with large diversified entertainment companies that have substantially greater resources than us, our operating margins and market share could be reduced, and the growth of our business inhibited. In particular, we compete with other television production and distribution companies, such as Buena Vista International Television, Paramount Television and Sony Pictures Television. A continuing trend towards business combinations and alliances in the communications industries may create significant new competitors for us or intensify existing competition. Many of these combined entities have resources far greater than ours. These combined entities may provide programming and other services that compete directly with our offered programming. We may need to reduce our prices or license additional programming to remain competitive, and we may be unable to sustain future pricing levels as competition increases. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our programming at desired pricing levels could impair our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, third party producers, whom we heavily rely on to produce our productions, are capable of developing, producing and distributing their own content to cable and broadcast networks. If this were to occur, these third party producers could subject us to further competition in the industry. We have accessed a variety of film production incentives and subsidies offered by foreign countries and the United States which reduce our production costs. If these incentives and subsidies become less accessible to us or to our production partners, or if they are eliminated, modified, denied or revoked, our production costs could substantially increase. Production incentives and subsidies for film production are widely used throughout the industry and are important in helping to offset production costs. Many foreign countries, the United States and individual states have programs designed to attract production. Canada is a notable example. Incentives and subsidies are used to reduce production costs and such incentives and subsidies take different forms, including direct government rebates, sale and leaseback transactions or transferable tax credits. We have benefited from these financial incentives and subsidies in Canada as well as in Germany, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Hungary, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand and the United States. The laws and procedures governing these production incentives are subject to change. If we or our production partners are unable to access any of these incentives and subsidies because they are modified or eliminated, we may be forced to restructure the financing of our film productions, increasing the likelihood that our inability to offset production costs will cause our profits to decrease. Further, the applications for these incentives and subsidies often are prepared and filed by our production partners, rather than by us, and they are subject to guidelines and criteria mandated by foreign, United States or state governments. We do not control the application or approval processes. If these applications are denied or revoked for any reason, impacting the operations of our production partners, we may be forced to restructure the financing of our film productions. Failure to achieve the cost savings that we have historically achieved could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For further discussion on these production incentives and subsidies, see “Business — The production, marketing and distribution of our films — Production incentives and subsidies.” 16 Table of Contents Delays and changed delivery dates have had a material impact on the timing of our revenue recognition and receipt of cash, which has affected our financial results and ultimately has decreased the value of our stock price. A majority of our annual productions have been completed and made available to our licensees during the third and fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Typically, our MFT movies, mini-series and other television programming are ordered in the beginning of our fiscal year, and produced during the spring and summer, with distribution beginning in the fall. In accordance with GAAP, we do not recognize revenue from the distribution and licensing of our productions until several criteria are met, including such productions being made available for exhibition by a third party distributor or licensee. To the extent that we have any production delays due to weather, equipment malfunctions, creative differences or labor strikes, the timing can shift from one quarter to the next, which causes us to recognize that revenue in the next quarter or fiscal year and materially impacts our results of operations. If we decide to give guidance on our financial condition or results of operation, we may not achieve those projections due to a variety of factors including those discussed in this report. Furthermore, due to unpredictable factors that may occur during production, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement it require us to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the applicable policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent auditors disagree with our conclusion), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. We will incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses associated with corporate governance and public company reporting requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ. As long as the SEC requires the current level of compliance for public companies of our size, we expect these rules and regulations to require significant legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage than was previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as our executive officers. 17 Table of Contents Risks related to our corporate structure We are a holding company with no operations of our own, and we will depend on the distributions from Holdings II to meet our ongoing obligations and to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and we have no independent ability to generate revenue. Consequently, our ability to obtain operating funds depends upon distributions from Holdings II. The distribution of cash flows and other transfers of funds by Holdings II to us will be subject to statutory and contractual restrictions contained in RHI LLC’s existing senior secured credit facilities and the Holdings II LLC Agreement. RHI LLC’s existing senior secured credit facilities limit RHI LLC’s ability to distribute cash to its members, including Holdings II, based upon certain leverage tests. We will be unable to pay dividends to our stockholders or pay other expenses outside the ordinary course of business if Holdings II is unable to distribute cash to us. Because Holdings II is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, we, as the sole member and 100% owner of Holdings II, will incur U.S. federal and state income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of Holdings II. To the extent we need funds to pay such taxes or for any other purpose, and Holdings II is unable to provide such funds because of limitations in RHI LLC’s existing senior secured credit facilities or other restrictions, such inability to pay could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. If we are determined to be an investment company, we would become subject to burdensome regulatory requirements and our business activities could be restricted. We do not believe that we are an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “ICA”). As sole manager of Holdings II, we control Holdings II, and our interest in Holdings II is not an “investment security” as that term is used in the ICA. If we were to stop participating in the management of Holdings II, our interest in Holdings II could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the ICA. Generally, a company is an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (excluding U.S. government securities and cash items). Our sole asset is our equity interest in Holdings II. A determination that such asset was an investment security could result in our being considered an investment company under the ICA. As a result, we would become subject to registration and other burdensome requirements of the ICA. In addition, the requirements of the ICA could restrict our business activities, including our ability to issue securities. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not deemed an investment company under the ICA. However, if anything were to occur that would cause us to be deemed to be an investment company, we would become subject to restrictions imposed by the ICA. These restrictions, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operations. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other material agreements contain anti-takeover protections that may discourage or prevent strategic transactions, including a takeover of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, the Holdings II LLC Agreement, the director designation agreement, other reorganization agreements, our credit agreements and provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, could delay or prevent a third party from entering into a strategic transaction with us, even if such a transaction would benefit our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • establish supermajority approval requirements by our directors before our board may take certain actions; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares, making a takeover more difficult and expensive; • establish a classified board of directors; • allow removal of directors only for cause; 18 Table of Contents • prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and The foregoing provisions and restrictions, along with those in our formation and reorganization documents, could keep us from pursuing relationships with strategic partners and from raising additional capital, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. These restrictions could also limit stockholder value by impeding a sale of us or Holdings II. Risks related to an investment in our common stock If we seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, all of our outstanding shares of capital stock would likely be cancelled and holders of our capital stock would not be entitled to any payment in respect of their shares. If we seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, all of our outstanding shares of capital stock would likely be cancelled and holders of our capital stock would not be entitled to any payment in respect of their shares. It is also likely that certain of our obligations to certain of our creditors would be satisfied by the issuance of shares of capital stock in satisfaction of their claims. The value of any capital stock so issued is likely to be less than the face value of our obligations to those creditors, and the price of any such capital stock will likely be volatile. In addition, in the event of a bankruptcy filing, our common stock will be suspended from trading on and delisted from NASDAQ. Accordingly, we would expect trading in our common stock to be limited, and our stockholders will likely not be able to resell our common stock for their purchase price or at all. In addition, if we commence a filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, our current equityholders would receive little or no continuing interest in the Company. We are currently not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ, which is likely to result in the delisting of our common stock if we cannot regain compliance. On December 24, 2009, we were notified by NASDAQ that our common stock was subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market because the market value of our publicly held shares was less than the $5 million minimum required for continued listing pursuant to Listing Rule 5450(b)(1)(C) and that we no longer met the $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing pursuant to Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). We were granted 180 calendar days to regain compliance with each of these requirements. As of the date of this report, we have not regained compliance with such requirements and can provide no assurance the we will achieve compliance. Our future issuance of preferred stock could dilute the voting power of our common stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our common stock. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock, either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock. The sale of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares, which in turn could negatively impact our share price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our shares of common stock in the public market (or the perception that such sales may occur) could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to 19 Table of Contents raise capital through future sales of our equity securities. As of December 31, 2009, 23,416,000 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. We may issue our shares of common stock from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments, or to satisfy obligations to our creditors. If any such acquisition, investment or obligation is significant, the number of shares that we may issue may in turn be significant. In addition, we may also grant registration rights covering those shares in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Because we have not paid dividends and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, you should not expect to receive dividends on shares of our common stock. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not currently intend to do so in the near future. However, our board of directors has discretion to determine if and when a dividend will be payable in the future. Our board will likely consider a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, future prospects for the business, the Company’s cash requirements and any other factors that the board deems relevant. In addition, our current senior secured credit facilities contain covenants prohibiting the payment of cash dividends without the consent of our lenders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 20 Table of Contents 