ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks as well as the other risks highlighted elsewhere in this Annual Report, particularly the discussions about regulation, competition and intellectual property. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. We were formed in January 2006 and have a limited operating history. As a result, there is very limited historical performance upon which to evaluate our prospects for achieving our business objectives. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, difficulties and uncertainties frequently encountered by development stage entities. To date, we have generated only losses, which are expected to continue for the foreseeable future. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we incurred a net loss of approximately $9.9 million and $6.1 million, respectively, and used cash in operations of approximately $6.4 million and $4.9 million, respectively, in connection with the development of our software for mobile phones and the operations of our subsidiary. As of December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $5.4 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $30.1 million. We expect our net losses and negative cash flow to continue for the foreseeable future, as we continue to develop our platform, launch our service with new mobile carriers and begin to develop additional products. We are a development stage company with no significant source of income and our independent auditors have expressed doubt about our ability to continue our activities as a going concern and the continuation of our business is dependent on us raising additional capital. We are still a development stage company. Our operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in development stage companies which do not have significant revenues or operating income. Our potential for success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with a new business, especially technology start-up companies. We cannot provide any assurance that our business objectives will be accomplished. All of our audited consolidated financial statements, since inception, have contained a statement by our auditors that raises substantial doubt about us being able to continue as a going concern unless we are able to raise additional capital. Our financial statements do not include any adjustment relating to the recovery and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amount and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should our operations cease. The continuation of our business is dependent upon us raising additional financing. We believe that current cash levels will be sufficient to support our activity into the third quarter of 2011. The issuance of additional equity securities by us could result in a substantial dilution to our current stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, will increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. If we should fail to continue as a going concern, you may lose the value of your investment in our securities. Our expected future growth will place a significant strain on our management, systems and resources. Our business was formed in January 2006 and has grown quickly. In order to execute our business strategy, we will need to continue to experience growth, which will place a significant strain on our systems, processes, resources, management and other infrastructure and support mechanisms. To manage the anticipated growth of our operations, we will be required to: • Improve existing and implement new operational, financial and management information controls, reporting systems and procedures; • Establish relationships with additional vendors and strategic partners and maintain existing relationships (including possible growth by acquisition); and • Hire, train, manage and retain additional personnel. To the extent we are unable to assemble the personnel, controls, systems, procedures and relationships necessary to manage our future growth, if any, management resources may be diverted, and our opportunity for success may be limited. If we are unable to enter into or maintain distribution arrangements with major mobile carriers and/or other partners and develop and maintain strategic relationships with such mobile carriers and/or other partners, we will 9 Table of Contents be unable to distribute our products effectively or generate significant revenue. Our strategy for pursuing a significant share of the video ringtone market is dependent upon establishing distribution arrangements with major mobile carriers and other partners. We need to develop and maintain strategic relationships with these entities in order for them to market our service to their end users. While we have entered into agreements with certain partners pursuant to which our service may be made available to their end-users, such agreements are not exclusive and generally do not obligate the partner to market or distribute our service. In addition, a number of our distribution agreements allow the mobile carrier to terminate its rights under the agreement at any time and for any reason upon 30 days’ notice. We are dependent upon the subsequent success of these partners in performing their responsibilities and sufficiently marketing our service. We cannot provide you any assurance that we will be able to negotiate, execute and maintain favorable agreements and relationships with any additional partners, that the partners with whom we have a contractual relationship will choose to promote our service or that such partners will be successful and/or will not pursue alternative technologies. If we are unsuccessful in entering into and maintaining content license agreements, our revenues will be negatively affected. The success of our service is dependent upon our providing end-users with content they desire. An important aspect of this strategy is establishing licensing relationships with third party content providers that have desirable content. Content license agreements generally have a fixed term, may or may not include provisions for exclusivity and may require us to make significant minimum payments. We have entered into approximately 35 content license agreements with various content providers. While our business is not dependent on any particular content license agreement, there is no assurance that we will enter into a sufficient number of content license agreements or that the ones that we enter into will be profitable and will not be terminated early. Our failure to consummate the transaction with m-Wise may adversely affect us. The consummation of the transaction with m-Wise is dependent on completion of a definitive purchase agreement, due diligence, and approval by the respective company’s stockholders and Boards of Directors. We have expended significant effort and management attention on the proposed transaction. There is no assurance that the transaction will be consummated. For example, we may not enter into a definitive purchase agreement with m-Wise or the stockholders or boards of directors of the respective companies may not approve the transaction. If the transaction is not consummated for any reason, our business and operations, as well as the market price of our stock and warrants may be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully integrate m-Wise’s business. If we consummate the proposed m-Wise transaction, we may not be able to successfully integrate m-Wise’s operations with our own. In addition, we may not be able to retain m-Wise’s employees or customers subsequent to the transaction. As a result, we may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction. We will issue a significant number of shares in connection with the proposed m-Wise transaction, which will result in significant dilution to our stockholders. Pursuant to our Letter of Intent for the proposed m-Wise transaction, we agreed to issue to m-Wise 1.9 million shares of our common stock, and provide m-Wise's management with a retention package comprised of options to purchase 500,000 shares of common stock. In addition, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of common or preferred stock in the future in connection with future transactions. The issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock: • may significantly dilute the equity interests of our current stockholders; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and warrants. We may not identify or consummate any additional acquisitions. We intend to consider acquisition opportunities to enable us to grow. However, there is no assurance that any such opportunities may arise, or that any we will be able to consummate any opportunities we identify. Furthermore, we may not have, and may be unable to obtain, sufficient financing for certain opportunities. If we are unable to identify or consummate additional acquisitions, we may be unable to grow our business. We may not be able to generate revenues from certain of our prepaid mobile customers. We currently operate in markets that have a high percentage of prepaid mobile customers. Many of these users may not have a sufficient balance in their prepaid account when their free trial ends and we bill them to cover the charges for subscribing to our service. As a result, the subscriber numbers that we periodically disclose may not generate revenues at the expected level. We are dependent on mobile carriers and other partners to make timely payments to us. We will receive our revenue from mobile carriers and other distribution partners who may delay payment to us, dispute amounts owed to us, or in some cases refuse to pay us at all. Many of these partners are in markets where we may have limited legal recourse to collect payments from these partners. Our failure to collect payments owed to us from our partners will have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. We may not be able to continue to maintain our application on all of the operating systems which we currently support. 10 Table of Contents Our application is compatible with various mobile operating systems including the Symbian, Sony Ericsson, Java, Windows Mobile, Android and Blackberry operating systems. While Windows Mobile, Blackberry and Android do not support video ringtones natively, our development team has enabled our application to work on many devices which utilize these operating systems. Since these operating systems do not support video ringtones natively, any significant changes to these operating systems by their respective developers may prevent our application from working properly or at all on these systems. If we are unable to maintain our application on these operating systems or on any other operating systems, users of these operating systems will not be able to use our application, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We operate in the digital content market where piracy of content is widespread. Our business strategy is partially based upon users paying us for access to our content. If users believe they can obtain the same or similar content for free via other means including piracy, they may be unwilling to pay for our service. Additionally, since our own clips do not have any copy protection, they can theoretically be distributed by a paying user to a non-paying user without any additional payment to us. If users or potential users obtain our content or similar content without payment to us, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Major network failures could have an adverse effect on our business. Major equipment failures, natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist acts, acts of war, cyber-attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security that affect third-party networks, transport facilities, communications switches, routers, microwave links, cell sites or other third-party equipment on which we rely, could cause major network failures and/or unusually high network traffic demands that could have a material adverse effect on our operations or our ability to provide service to our customers. These events could disrupt our operations, require significant resources to resolve, result in a loss of customers or impair our ability to attract new customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our data is hosted at a remote location. Although we have full alternative site data backed up, we do not have data hosting redundancy. Accordingly, we may experience significant service interruptions, which could require significant resources to resolve, result in a loss of customers or impair our ability to attract new customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, with the growth of wireless data services, enterprise data interfaces and Internet-based or Internet Protocol-enabled applications, wireless networks and devices are exposed to a greater degree to third-party data or applications over which we have less direct control. As a result, the network infrastructure and information systems on which we rely, as well as our customers’ wireless devices, may be subject to a wider array of potential security risks, including viruses and other types of computer-based attacks, which could cause lapses in our service or adversely affect the ability of our customers to access our service. Such lapses could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Our business depends upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes, and our failure to do so could make us less competitive in our industry. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid change and technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations and evolving industry standards. Products using new technologies or emerging industry standards could make our products and services less attractive. Furthermore, our competitors may have access to technology not available to us, which may enable them to produce products of greater interest to consumers or at a more competitive cost. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments may result in serious harm to our business and operating results. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market product and service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances available to our customers, evolving industry standards and changing preferences. Our inability to identify, hire and retain qualified personnel would adversely affect our business. Our continued success will depend, to a significant extent, upon the performance and contributions of our senior management and upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management personnel and employees. We depend on our key senior management to effectively manage our business in a highly competitive environment. If one or more of our key officers forms a competing company, we may experience interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market, difficulties in our relationships with customers and loss of additional personnel, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition, operating results and projected growth. Regulation concerning consumer privacy may adversely affect our business. Certain technologies that we currently support, or may in the future support, are capable of collecting personally-identifiable information. We anticipate that as mobile telephone software continues to develop, it will be possible to collect or monitor substantially more of this type of information. A growing body of laws designed to protect the privacy of 11 Table of Contents personally-identifiable information, as well as to protect against its misuse, and the judicial interpretations of such laws, may adversely affect the growth of our business. In the United States, these laws could include the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act, as well as various state laws and related regulations. In addition, certain governmental agencies, like the Federal Trade Commission, have the authority to protect against the misuse of consumer information by targeting companies that collect, disseminate or maintain personal information in an unfair or deceptive manner. In particular, such laws could limit our ability to collect information related to users or our services, to store or process that information in what would otherwise be the most efficient manner, or to commercialize new products based on new technologies. The evolving nature of all of these laws and regulations, as well as the evolving nature of various governmental bodies’ enforcement efforts, and the possibility of new laws in this area, may adversely affect our ability to collect and disseminate or share certain information about consumers and may negatively affect our ability to make use of that information. If we fail to successfully comply with applicable regulations in this area, our business and prospects could be harmed. Consumer avoidance of services which collect, store or use personally-identifiable data could adversely affect our business. Consumer sentiment regarding privacy issues is constantly evolving. Such consumer sentiment may affect the buying public’s interest in our current or future service offerings. In some areas, consumer groups and individual consumers have already begun to vigorously lobby against, or otherwise express significant concern over, the collection, storage and/or use of personally-identifiable information. Accordingly, privacy concerns of consumers may influence mobile carriers to refrain from offering products that could harm the overall mobile telephone industry. Moreover, strong consumer attitudes often precipitate new regulations like the ones described above. If we fail to successfully monitor and consider the privacy concerns of consumers, our business and prospects would be harmed. We have not been subject to Sarbanes-Oxley regulations and we, therefore, may lack the financial controls and safeguards now required of public companies. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will be required, beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2011, to include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. We do not presently have the internal infrastructure necessary to complete an attestation about our financial controls that would be required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect to incur additional expenses and expend management’s time as a result of performing the system and process evaluation, testing and remediation required in order to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements. We have identified a material weakness relating to our ineffective internal controls in particular insufficient staff governing finance functions and an inadequate reporting process during the reporting periods. If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our ability to compete depends in part upon the strength of our proprietary rights in our technologies, brands and content. We rely on a combination of U.S. and foreign patents, copyrights, trademark, trade secret laws and license agreements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective at stopping unauthorized use of our intellectual property and proprietary rights. In addition, effective trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available or cost-effective in every country in which our services are made available through the Internet. There may be instances where we are not able to fully protect or utilize our intellectual property in a manner that maximizes competitive advantage. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of our products may be reduced, which could negatively impact our business. Our inability to obtain appropriate protections for our intellectual property may also allow competitors to enter our markets and produce or sell the same or similar products. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and diverts critical managerial resources. If any of the foregoing were to occur, or if we are otherwise unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. If we are forced to resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive. In addition, our proprietary rights could be at risk if we are unsuccessful in, or cannot afford to pursue, those proceedings. We also rely on trade secrets and contract law to protect some of our proprietary technology. We have entered into confidentiality and invention agreements with our employees and consultants. Nevertheless, these agreements may not be honored and they may not effectively protect our right to our un-patented trade secrets and know-how. Moreover, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. 12 Table of Contents The possibility of extensive delays in the patent issuance process could effectively reduce the term during which a marketed product is protected by patents. We may need to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from third parties. We may not be able to obtain the licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights or they may not be available on acceptable terms. If we do not obtain required licenses, we may encounter delays in product development or find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring licenses could be foreclosed. We may, from time to time, support and collaborate in research conducted by universities and governmental research organizations. We may not be able to acquire exclusive rights to the inventions or technical information derived from these collaborations, and disputes may arise over rights in derivative or related research programs conducted by us or our collaborators. If we or our users infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may have to defend against litigation and pay damages and our business and prospects may be adversely affected. If a third party were to assert that our products infringe on its patent, copyright, trademark, right of publicity, right of privacy, trade secret or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs and be forced to pay substantial damages. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only consume significant financial resources, but would also divert our management’s time and attention. Such claims or the lack of available access to certain sites or content could also cause our customers or potential customers to purchase competitors’ products if such competitors have access to the sites or contents that we are lacking or defer or limit their purchase or use of our affected products or services until resolution of the claim. In connection with any such claim or litigation, our mobile carriers and other partners may decide to re-assess their relationships with us, especially if they perceive that they may have potential liability or if such claimed infringement is a possible breach of our agreement with such mobile carrier. If any of our products are found to violate third-party intellectual property rights, we may have to re-engineer one or more of our products, or we may have to obtain licenses from third parties to continue offering our products without substantial re-engineering. Our efforts to re-engineer or obtain licenses could require significant expenditures of time and money and may not be successful. Accordingly, any claims or litigation regarding our infringement of intellectual property of a third party by us or our users could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Third party infringement claims could also significantly limit our Vringo Studio product and the content available in our content library. Our Vringo Studio tool allows users to access video from multiple sites on the web or from their computer and then edit and send these video clips to their mobile phones as customized video ringtones. These websites could choose to block us from accessing their content for violating their terms of service by allowing users to download clips or for any other reason, which could significantly limit the availability of content in the Vringo Studio. Additionally, while we employ special software that seeks to determine whether a clip is copyrighted or otherwise restricted, it is not feasible for us to determine whether users of Vringo Studio own or acquire appropriate intellectual property permissions to use each clip before it is downloaded. Therefore, we require users of the Vringo Studio to certify that they have the rights to use the content which they desire to send to their phone. Additionally, while the majority of the clips in our content library are either licensed by us directly or are public domain or creative commons, our content library contains certain clips which we have not licensed from the content owner. As a result, we may receive cease-and-desist letters, or other threats of litigation, from website hosts and content owners asserting that we are infringing on their intellectual property or violating the terms and conditions of their websites. In such a case, we will remove or attempt to obtain licenses for such content or obtain additional content from other websites. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to enter into license agreements with content owners. Consequently, we may be forced to remove a portion of our content from our library and significantly limit the availability of content in the Vringo Studio. This would negatively impact our user experience and may cause users to cancel our service and make our service less attractive to our partners. The exercise of a substantial number of warrants and options by our security holders may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Should our outstanding warrants be exercised, there will be an additional 7,923,833 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. In addition, we have options to purchase 2,506,911 shares of common stock, granted as of the reporting date, to our management, employees, directors and consultants. Many of the warrants and options which are outstanding have exercise prices that are below, and in some cases significantly below, recent market price. The average weighted exercise price of all currently outstanding warrants and options, as of December 31, 2010, is $4.15 per share. Such securities, if exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Therefore, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. 13 Table of Contents Future sales of our shares of common stock by our stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. We have 5,405,080 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, excluding shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants or options. At any time and without public notice, the underwriters may, in their sole discretion, release all or some of the securities subject to their lock-up agreements. In addition, the lock-up agreements will terminate as of June 22, 2011. As shares saleable under Rule 144 are sold after the lock-up period ends, or as restrictions on resale end, the market price of our stock could drop significantly if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. This decline in our stock price could occur even if our business is otherwise performing well. If we cannot continue to satisfy the NYSE Amex’s listing requirements and other rules, including NYSE Amex’s director independence requirements, our securities may be delisted, which could negatively impact the price of our securities and your ability to sell them. Although we have listed our securities on the NYSE Amex, we may not be able to continue to satisfy the listing requirements and rules that will apply to us in the future. If we are unable to satisfy the NYSE Amex criteria for maintaining our listing, our securities could be subject to delisting. To qualify for continued listing on the NYSE Amex, we must meet the following criteria: • (i) Our shareholders’ equity must be at least $2,000,000 and we must not have sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two of our three most recent fiscal years; or (ii) our shareholders’ equity must be at least $4,000,000 and we must not have sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years; or (iii) our shareholders’ equity must be at least $6,000,000 and we must not have sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in our five most recent fiscal years; • The number of our securities held by non-affiliates must equal at least 200,000; • The market value of our securities must not be less than $1,000,000 for 90 consecutive days; • We must have at least 300 shareholders; and • We must have adopted NYSE Amex’s mandated corporate governance measures, including a Board of Directors comprised of a majority of independent directors, an Audit Committee comprised solely of independent directors and the adoption of a code of ethics among other items. If the NYSE Amex delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences, including: • a limited availability for market quotations for our securities; • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. In addition, we would no longer be subject to the NYSE Amex rules, including rules requiring us to have a certain number of independent directors and to meet other corporate governance standards. If we are deemed insolvent under the terms of our Venture Loan, we would have insufficient resources to continue to operate. If we are deemed insolvent, as defined under the terms of our venture loan, we would be in default. If the loan is accelerated as a result of such default, we would not have sufficient funds to continue our operations. Insolvency is defined in the venture loan as our inability to pay debts when they become due or when the fair salable value of our assets drops below the fair value of our liabilities (excluding derivative liabilities on account of warrants). If there are significant shifts in the political, economic and military conditions in Israel and its neighbors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business relationships and profitability. Our research and development facility is located in Israel and many of our key personnel reside in Israel. Our business is directly affected by the political, economic and military conditions in Israel and its neighbors. Major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material 14 Table of Contents adverse effect on our existing business relationships and on our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israeli companies, which may impair our ability to create new business relationships or to be, or become, profitable. We may not be able to enforce covenants not-to-compete under current Israeli law that might result in added competition for our products. We have non-competition agreements with all of our employees, almost all of which are governed by Israeli law. These agreements generally prohibit our employees from competing with or working for our competitors, during their term of employment and for up to 12 months after termination of their employment. However, Israeli courts are reluctant to enforce non-compete undertakings of former employees and tend, if at all, to enforce those provisions for relatively brief periods of time in restricted geographical areas and only when the employee has unique value specific to that employer’s business and not just regarding the professional development of the employee. If we are not able to enforce non-compete covenants, we may be faced with added competition. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of certain of our personnel residing in Israel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and key employees reside in Israel and may be required to perform annual military reserve duty. Currently, all adult permanent residents of Israel under the age of 50, depending on military rank, unless exempt, are obligated to perform up to an average of 18-28 days of military reserve duty annually and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our officers or key employees due to military service. Any such disruption could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because we expect a substantial portion of our revenues will be generated in dollars and euros, while a significant portion of our expenses is incurred in Israeli currency, our revenue may be reduced due to inflation in Israel and currency exchange rate fluctuations. We expect a substantial portion of our revenues will be generated in dollars and euros, while a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, is paid in Israeli currency. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of Israeli currency in relation to the dollar or the euro, or that the timing of this devaluation will lag behind inflation in Israel. Because inflation has the effect of increasing the dollar and euro costs of our operations, it would therefore have an adverse effect on our dollar-measured results of operations. The value of the New Israeli Shekel, or NIS, against the United States dollar, the Euro and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in Israel’s political and economic conditions. Any significant revaluation of the NIS may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. Fluctuations in the NIS exchange rate, or even the appearance of instability in such exchange rate, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The termination or reduction of tax and other incentives that the Israeli government provides to domestic companies, such as our wholly-owned subsidiary, may increase the costs involved in operating a company in Israel. The Israeli government currently provides tax and capital investment incentives to domestic companies, as well as grant and loan programs relating to research and development and marketing and export activities. Our wholly-owned Israeli subsidiary currently takes advantage of some of these programs. We cannot provide you with any assurance that such benefits and programs will continue to be available in the future to our Israeli subsidiary. In addition, it is possible that our subsidiary will fail to meet the criteria required for eligibility of future benefits. If such benefits and programs were terminated or further reduced, it could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 