ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various portions of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Our Business We are still in the process of developing and commercializing the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews and may never be able to successfully commercialize them. We have not developed a prototype of the SkyViews and we are still in the process of developing and commercializing the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews. We may never be able to successfully commercialize the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews for a number of reasons, including: ● difficulties related to manufacturing the SkyViews’ components; ● difficulties related to the construction and installation of the SkyViews; ● low market acceptance; ● infringement on proprietary rights of others for which we have not received licenses; ● potential advantages of alternative Ferris wheel type products; ● lack of adequate cost controls for the manufacturing, construction, and installation; or ● the introduction of competitive products. 15 If any of these potential risks and difficulties occurs, we may never successfully commercialize the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews. If we are unable to do so, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We have no existing operations or operating history with respect to our new location-based entertainment line of business utilizing the SkyView Technology. We have no existing operations or operating history with respect to our new location-based entertainment line of business utilizing the SkyView Technology. Members of our senior management have limited experience with the development and commercialization of the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews and, as a result, we have retained consultants and other advisers with appropriate experience, upon whom we are dependent. In addition, we have not developed a prototype of the SkyViews and have not sold or licensed any SkyViews yet. You must consider our proposed business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we will encounter as a company with no existing operations or operating history and senior management with limited experience in our new line of business. Our operations will be subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies frequently encountered by new businesses in competitive environments, many of which are beyond our control. Because we have no operating history in our new line of business, it may be more difficult for us to prepare for and respond to these types of risks and the risks described under this “Item 1.A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report than for a company with an established business and operating cash flow. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and difficulties, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our License Agreement for the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews is terminable by the ThrillRides Parties in the event we do not satisfy certain performance standards in a timely fashion. Our License Agreement for the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews is terminable by the ThrillRides Parties if either of the two performance standards described below is not met by us due to any cause other than a material default of the ThrillRides Parties or a force majeure event. Under the first performance standard, we are required to sell a minimum of three (3) SkyViews under a binding agreement or have three (3) SkyViews built or under construction (i.e., firm order and deposit in hand) within 30 months of the date of entry into the License Agreement (subject to extension for force majeure events specified in the License Agreement). Under the second performance standard, we are required to either sell another three (3) SkyViews or have another three (3) SkyViews built or under construction within 66 months of the date of entry into the License Agreement (subject to extension for force majeure events specified in the License Agreement). If our License Agreement is terminated because of our failure to satisfy either of the above performance standards , our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We are solely reliant on the world-wide exclusive license for the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews under the License Agreement and any loss of this license would have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not own any of the intellectual property upon which the SkyView Technology is based. We license such intellectual property from the ThrillRides Parties under the License Agreement. We have certain monetary and operational obligations (aside from the performance standards mentioned in the preceding risk factor) under the License Agreement. If we fail to perform any of our obligations under the License Agreement, the ThrillRides Parties may have the right to terminate the License Agreement and the intellectual property would revert to the ThrillRides Parties and we would not be able to use (except potentially under limited circumstances) or further develop the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews. We are completely dependent upon the successful development and commercialization of the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews. If we fail to successfully complete their development and commercialization or enter into related licensing or strategic relationships, we will not generate revenue. All of our efforts are focused on the development and commercialization of the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews. There is no guarantee that we will succeed in developing and commercializing them or enter into related licensing or strategic relationships. Even if we enter licensing or strategic relationships to commercialize the SkyView Technology and the SkyViews, it may take years before we generate any significant revenue or if at all. We have no other means or line of business to generate revenue. We have no current cash flow and cash on hand is insufficient to fund our short-term liquidity needs. 16 We may experience product liability claims, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may experience product liability claims. We intend to maintain product liability insurance coverage for the SkyViews we own and operate for our own account and for those we sell or license to third parties. If either we are unable to obtain or renew product liability insurance and suffer an adverse determination in any material product liability claim or if we obtain product liability insurance and suffer an adverse determination in any material product liability claim in excess of any insurance coverage, such adverse determination could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial condition. The Company has no current cash flow and cash on hand is insufficient to fund our short-term liquidity needs. The Company has no current cash flow and cash on hand is not sufficient to fund our short-term liquidity needs during 2011, including the payment of executive salaries of approximately $1.4 million, advance royalty payments to the ThrillRides Parties under the License Agreement of approximately $600,000 and payments under the Transaction Agreement for the Orlando, Florida project of approximately $5.0 million. Even if we are able to raise additional financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to us or disadvantageous to our existing stockholders. The development of our operations will require the commitment of substantial resources to implement our business plan. Currently, we have no established bank-financing arrangements. Therefore, it is likely we would need to seek additional financing through subsequent future public and/or private sales of our equity securities, and/or through strategic partnerships and other arrangements with corporate partners. Even if we are able to raise additional cash or obtain financing through the public or private sale of debt and/or equity securities, funding from joint-venture or strategic partners, debt financing or short-term loans, the terms of such transactions may be unduly expensive or burdensome to us or disadvantageous to our existing stockholders. For example, we may be forced to sell or issue our securities at significant discounts to market, or pursuant to onerous terms and conditions, including the issuance of preferred stock with disadvantageous dividend, voting or veto, board membership, conversion, redemption or liquidation provisions; the issuance of convertible debt with disadvantageous interest rates and conversion features; the issuance of warrants with cashless exercise features; the issuance of securities with anti-dilution provisions; the issuance of high-yield securities and bank debt with restrictive covenants and security packages; and the grant of registration rights with significant penalties for the failure to quickly register. If we are able to raise debt financing, we may be required to secure the financing with all of our future business assets, which could be sold or retained by the creditor should we default in our payment obligations. Our independent registered public accounting firm has rendered a report expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report dated March 31, 2011 in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the period ending December 31, 2010 that includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern due to our need to secure additional capital in order to pay our obligations as they become due. If we are not able to obtain additional debt and/or equity financing, we may not be able to continue as a going concern and you could lose all of the value of our common stock. The concentration of ownership of our capital stock with our affiliates will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Robert F.X. Sillerman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Paul C. Kanavos, our President, beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 46.6% of our outstanding common stock and 32.9% of our outstanding Series A and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, and our executive officers and directors together beneficially own approximately 49.7% of our outstanding common stock and 36% of our outstanding Series A and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. Our executive officers and directors therefore have the ability to influence our management and affairs and the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, approval of any equity-based employee compensation plan and any stock splits or any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result of this concentrated control, unaffiliated stockholders of our company have a limited ability to meaningfully influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our unaffiliated stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the value and/or liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected. We have potential business conflicts with certain of our executive officers because of their relationships with other entities and their ability to pursue business activities for themselves and others that may compete with our business activities. Potential business conflicts exist between us and our executive officers as a result of the following: ● Each of Robert F.X. Sillerman, our Chief Executive Officer, and Mitchell J. Nelson, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, is permitted to devote a portion of his time to providing services for or on behalf of Function (X) Inc., a publicly-traded company of which Mr. Sillerman is the Executive Chairman and controlling stockholder, and to other businesses, so long as he devotes sufficient time to satisfy his work requirements. ● Flag Luxury Properties held a $15 million priority preferred distribution right in FX Luxury Realty which entitles it to receive an aggregate amount of $15 million (together with an accrued priority return of $0.9 million as of December 31, 2009) prior to any distributions of cash by FX Luxury Realty from the proceeds of certain predefined capital transactions. On December 24, 2009, Flag Luxury Properties transferred its priority interest to FXL Priority Corp. On December 15, 2010, at the conclusion of the Bankruptcy Plan, the obligation was effectively terminated, since the proceeds to pay any priority distribution were to come from the Las Vegas Property or capital raising transactions in connection therewith. ● Mr. Kanavos, our President, is permitted to devote a portion of his time to providing services for or on behalf of BPS Parent, LLC (“BPS”) (with which we have a shared services agreement), and to other businesses, so long as he devotes sufficient time to satisfy his work requirements. 17 We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with these executive officers. Even if we do so, however, because of their ownership interest in us, these executive officers will have leverage with negotiations over their performance that may result in a resolution of such conflicts that may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with another third party. We have entered into related party transactions on terms that some stockholders may consider not to be in their best interests. During 2010, certain of our employees, including our President, Mr. Kanavos and our General Counsel, Mr. Nelson, were permitted to devote a portion of their time providing services to Flag Luxury Properties and BPS. Because such transactions are subject to certain rules regarding “affiliated” transactions, a majority of the independent members of the Board of Directors is needed to approve such arrangements In late 2010, the Company entered into a shared services agreement with BPS, a company substantially owned and controlled by Mr. Kanavos and Brett Torino, a greater than 10% stockholder of our company, pursuant to which we reimburse BPS for the services of management and related executive personnel in the field of real estate business development with respect to location-based entertainment businesses, advice in connection with specific development or construction projects, the preparation of financial projections, and construction administration and planning for our location-based entertainment business, and more particularly, development of the SkyView Technology. Reimbursement is based on the allocation of time spent with respect to our matters and the allocable overhead pertaining thereto. Because such transactions are subject to certain rules regarding “affiliated” transactions, a majority of the independent members of the Board of Directors is needed to approve such arrangements. Function (X) Inc. and the Company contemplate entering into a shared services agreement relating to services to be performed by Mitchell J. Nelson as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of both companies to share employment and overhead-related expenses. Function (X) Inc. is a publicly traded company controlled by Robert F.X. Sillerman. Since any such shared services agreement is subject to certain rules regarding affiliated transactions, a majority of independent members of the Company’s Board of Directors will need to approve such arrangement. We may lose the services of our key personnel, including certain senior executives and critical consultants and advisors, if we are not able to satisfy our payment obligations under their agreements. Our performance is dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers and consultants and advisors with regard to the SkyView Technology and the SkyView with whom we have agreements. Due to our current financial situation, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to continue to make required payments under the executive employment agreements, which amounts total $1,200,000 for 2011, or required payments under our agreements with critical consultants and advisors. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees or critical consultants and advisors could adversely affect our business. Such payments have not been made since October 1, 2009. Amounts accrued for Paul Kanavos are approximately $ 845,000 as of December 31, 2010. Mr. Kanavos has not been paid since October 1, 2009. Amounts accrued for Mitchell Nelson are approximately $590,000 as of December 31, 2010. Mr. Nelson was not paid between October 1, 2009 and April 30, 2010 and has received partial payment of $20,000 per month since May 1, 2010. We continue to need to enhance our internal controls and financial reporting systems to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to assess and attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The loss of certain key accounting and finance personnel and termination of the Shared Services Agreement with CKX in 2009, coupled with our limited financial and human resources has materially affected our internal controls over financial reporting, including internal controls over accounting for stock based compensation, accounting for long-lived assets and the financial statement close process. Due to the impact of these events on our internal controls over financial reporting in these areas, significant adjustments were necessary to present the financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We currently do not have, nor do we expect to have in the future, the capacity to devise and implement a plan to remediate these material weaknesses. As of December 31, 2010, we were unable to remediate these material weaknesses because of our limited financial and human resources. 18 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Substantial amounts of our common stock and other equity securities could be sold in the near future, which could depress our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. All of the outstanding shares of common stock belonging to officers, directors and other affiliates are currently “restricted securities” under the Securities Act. Approximately 55 million shares of these restricted securities are eligible for sale in the public market at prescribed times pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or otherwise. Sales of a significant number of these shares of common stock in the public market or the appearance of such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock and could negatively impact our ability to sell equity in the market to fund our business plans. In addition, we expect that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional common stock and other equity securities as part of our efforts to raise capital to fund our development plans. The issuance of these securities could negatively effect the value of our stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of dividends may have a negative effect on our stock price. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock are senior to our common stock as to the right to receive cash dividends. There are current dividend arrearages on our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and unless and until such arrearages are satisfied in full, we may not pay cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements we may enter into are likely to prohibit or restrict, the payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Our issuance of additional shares of our preferred stock, common stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, would dilute proportionate ownership and voting rights. Our issuance of shares of preferred stock, common stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, could negatively impact the value of a stockholder’s shares of common stock as the result of preferential voting rights or veto powers, dividend rights, disproportionate rights to appoint directors to our board, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions granted to preferred stockholders, including the grant of rights that could discourage or prevent the distribution of dividends to stockholders, or prevent the sale of our assets or a potential takeover of our company that might otherwise result in stockholders receiving a distribution or a premium over the market price for their common stock. We are entitled, under our certificate of incorporation to issue up to 300 million common and 75 million “blank check” preferred shares. After taking into consideration our outstanding common stock and Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock as of March 25, 2011, we will be entitled to issue up to 234,596,124 additional common shares, and 74,995,999 preferred shares. Our board may generally issue those common and preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, without further approval by our stockholders based upon such factors as our board of directors may deem relevant at that time. Any preferred shares we may issue shall have such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as may be designated from time-to-time by our board, including preferential dividend rights, voting rights, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions. Reference is made to “Item 1. Business— 2010 and 2011 Private Placements of Common Stock and Convertible Preferred Stock Units—Series A Convertible Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation” for a description of the dividend rights, preferences and other privileges of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. We cannot give you any assurance that we will not issue additional common or preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, under circumstances we may deem appropriate at the time. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: ● Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, subject to the right of the stockholders to elect a successor at the next annual or special meeting of stockholders, which limits the ability of stockholders to fill vacancies on our board of directors. ● Our stockholders may not call a special meeting of stockholders, which would limit their ability to call a meeting for the purpose of, among other things, voting on acquisition proposals. 19 ● Our by-laws may be amended by our board of directors without stockholder approval, provided that stockholders may repeal or amend any such amended by-law at a special or annual meeting of stockholders. ● Our by-laws also provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at an annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders may not be taken by written action in lieu of a meeting. ● Our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which could limit the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates. ● Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. ● Our board of directors may authorize and issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire our company. As a Delaware corporation, by an express provision in our certificate of incorporation, we have elected to “opt out” of the restrictions under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 