ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks as well as the other risks highlighted elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly the discussions about regulation, competition and intellectual property. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may materially affect our business operations. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We are a development stage company and we have generated no significant revenue to date. I/P, the accounting acquirer, was incorporated in June 2011, at which time it acquired patent assets from Lycos, Inc. To date, our business is focused on the assertion of these patents and other patents we acquired. Therefore, we not only have a very limited operating history, but also a limited track record in executing our business model which includes, among other things, creating, prosecuting, licensing, litigating or otherwise monetizing our patent assets. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business model and future prospects. In light of the costs, uncertainties, delays and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of development with no operating history, there is a significant risk that we will not be able to: • implement or execute our current business plan, or demonstrate that our business plan is sound; and/or • raise sufficient funds in the capital markets to effectuate our long-term business plan. If we are unable to execute any one of the foregoing or similar matters relating to our operations, our business may fail. We commenced legal proceedings against the major online search engines, security and communications companies, and we expect such proceedings to be time-consuming and costly, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. To license or otherwise monetize the patent assets that we own, we commenced legal proceedings against a number of large, multi-national companies, pursuant to which we allege that such companies infringe on one or more of our patents. Our viability is highly dependent on the outcome of these litigations, and there is a risk that we may be unable to achieve the results we desire from such litigation, which failure would harm our business to a great degree. In addition, the defendants in these litigations have substantially more resources than we do, which could make our litigation efforts more difficult. We anticipate that legal proceedings may continue for several years and may require significant expenditures for legal fees and other expenses. Disputes regarding the assertion of patents and other intellectual property rights are highly complex and technical. Once initiated, we may be forced to litigate against other parties in addition to the originally named defendants. Our adversaries may allege defenses and/or file counterclaims for inter alia revocation of our patents or file collateral litigations or initiate investigations in the United States, Europe, India, China or elsewhere in an effort to avoid or limit liability and damages for patent infringement. If such actions are successful, they may preclude our ability to derive licensing revenue from the patents currently being asserted. Additionally, we anticipate that our legal fees and other expenses will be material and will negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations and may result in our inability to continue our business. We estimate that our legal fees over the next twelve months will be significant for these enforcement actions. Expenses thereafter are dependent on the outcome of the status of the litigation. Our failure to monetize our patent assets would significantly harm our business. Further, should we be deemed the losing party in many of our litigations, we may be liable for some or all of our opponents’ legal fees. In any of our applications to the Court in the UK ZTE litigation or for the entire UK ZTE litigation, we may be held responsible for a substantial percentage of the defendant’s legal fees for the relevant application or for the litigation. These fees may be substantial. To date, ZTE has asserted that its anticipated fees in defending the UK litigation may be approximately $5,800,000. In Australia, should we be deemed the losing party in any of our applications to the Court or for the entire litigation, we may be held responsible for a substantial percentage of the defendant’s legal fees for the relevant application or for the litigation. These fees may be substantial. 8 In Australia, should we be deemed the losing party in any of our applications to the Court or for the entire litigation, we may be held responsible for a substantial percentage of the defendant’s legal fees for the relevant application or for the litigation. These fees may be substantial. In Germany, the amount of fees payable by a losing party is determined based on certain possible statutory levels of “value in dispute.” The value in dispute is only very loosely correlated to the actual value of any potential final settlement or license. Under the current statute, our risk is capped at approximately $952,000 (or €732,000) were the court to determine that the value in dispute is at the highest tier under law. In France, should we be deemed to be the losing party, it is more likely than not that we will be ordered to pay a contribution to ZTE’s attorney and expert fees. The court in France will make an assessment of winning party’s costs during the course of the proceeding on the merits, and at its discretion order the losing party to pay a portion of those costs, typically between 40-60%. As of today, we cannot estimate our potential future liability. However, should we be successful on any court applications in the UK, Australia, France, or Germany or the entire litigation and/or litigations, our adversary may be responsible for a substantial percentage of our legal fees. In Germany, should the court order an injunction for it to be enforced, we will have to pay a security based on the relevant statutory rate. In our litigations against ZTE and ASUS the statutory rate is approximately $1,300,000 (or €1,000,000) for each patent asserted. In our litigation with Tyco, the rate is approximately $650,000 (or €500,000). The statutory rate is only loosely correlated to any actual harm the defendant may suffer from an injunction. The district court judge is entitled to increase the amount of the security. Generally, the courts take the value in dispute as the amount payable as security Further, if any of the patents in suit are found not infringed or invalid, it is highly unlikely that the relevant patents would be viewed as essential and therefore infringed by all unlicensed market participants. While we believe that the patents we own are being infringed there is a risk that a court will find the patents invalid, not infringed or unenforceable and/or that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) or other relevant patent office will either invalidate the patents or materially narrow the scope of their claims during the course of a reexamination, opposition or other such proceeding. In addition, even with a positive trial court verdict, the patents may be invalidated, found not infringed or rendered unenforceable on appeal. This risk may occur either presently or from time to time in connection with future litigations we may bring. If this were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on the viability of our company and our operations. We believe that certain companies infringe our patents, but recognize that obtaining and collecting a judgment against such companies may be difficult or impossible. Patent litigation is inherently risky and the outcome is uncertain. Some of the parties that we believe infringe on our patents are large and well-financed companies with substantially greater resources than ours. We believe that these parties would devote a substantial amount of resources in an attempt to avoid or limit a finding that they are liable for infringing on our patents or, in the event liability is found, to avoid or limit the amount of associated damages. In addition, there is a risk that these parties may file reexaminations or other proceedings with the USPTO or other government agencies in the United States or abroad in an attempt to invalidate, narrow the scope or render unenforceable the patents we own. Moreover, in connection with any of our present or future patent enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we violated relevant statues, regulations, rules or standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions in the United States or abroad. In such event, a court or other regulatory agency may issue monetary sanctions against us or our operating subsidiaries or award attorneys’ fees and/or expenses to one or more defendants, which could be material, and if we or our subsidiaries are required to pay such monetary sanctions, attorneys’ fees and/or expenses, such payment could materially harm our operating results and financial position. In addition, it is difficult in general to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial or appellate level. In the United States, there is a higher rate of appeals in patent enforcement litigation than standard business litigation. The defendant to any case we bring, may file as many appeals as allowed by right, including to the first, second and/or final courts of appeal (in the United States those courts would be the Federal Circuit and Supreme Court, respectively). Such appeals are expensive and time-consuming, and the outcomes of such appeals are sometimes unpredictable, resulting in increased costs and reduced or delayed revenue. We may not be able to successfully monetize the patents we acquired from Nokia, nor any of the other patent acquisitions, thus we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully monetize the patent portfolio that we acquired from Nokia, nor any other of the patent acquisitions. The patents we acquired from Nokia could fail to produce anticipated benefits, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. Failure to successfully monetize these patent assets may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of the patent portfolio is subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to the following: • There is a significant time lag between acquiring a patent portfolio and recognizing revenue from those patent assets, if at all. During that time lag, material costs are likely to be incurred that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. • The integration of a patent portfolio is a time consuming and expensive process that may disrupt our operations. If our integration efforts are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from such acquisition. Therefore, there is no assurance that we will be able to monetize the acquired patent portfolio and recoup our investment. We may seek to internally develop new inventions and intellectual property, which would take time and would be costly. Moreover, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for such inventions would lead to the loss of our investments in such activities. Members of our management team have experience as inventors. As such, part of our business may include the internal development of new inventions or intellectual property that we will seek to monetize. However, this aspect of our business would likely require significant capital and would take time to achieve. Such activities could also distract our management team from its present business initiatives, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. There is also the risk that our initiatives in this regard would not yield any viable new inventions or technology, which would lead to a loss of our investments in time and resources in such activities. 9 In addition, even if we are able to internally develop new inventions, in order for those inventions to be viable and to compete effectively, we would need to develop and maintain, and they would heavily rely on, a proprietary position with respect to such inventions and intellectual property. However, there are significant risks associated with any such intellectual property we may develop principally including the following: • patent applications we may file may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; • we may be subject to opposition proceedings in the U.S. or foreign countries; • any patents that are issued to us may not provide meaningful protection; • we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • other companies may challenge patents issued to us; • other companies may have independently developed and/or patented (or may in the future independently develop and patent) similar or alternative technologies, or duplicate our technologies; • other companies may design around patents we have developed; and • enforcement of our patents could be complex, uncertain and very expensive. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any future applications, or that any of our patents, once issued, will provide us with adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged, declared invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope. In addition, since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we will be the first to make our additional new inventions or to file patent applications covering those inventions. It is also possible that others may have or may obtain issued patents that could prevent us from commercializing our products or require us to obtain licenses requiring the payment of significant fees or royalties in order to enable us to conduct our business. As to those patents that we may license or otherwise monetize, our rights will depend on maintaining our obligations to the licensor under the applicable license agreement, and we may be unable to do so. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for our inventions would lead to the loss of our investments in such activities, which would have a material and adverse effect on our company. Moreover, patent application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from our internally generated patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. New legislation, regulations or court rulings related to enforcing patents could harm our business and operating results. Intellectual property is the subject of intense scrutiny by the courts, legislatures and executive branches of governments around the world. Various patent offices, governments or intergovernmental bodies (like the European Commission) may implement new legislation, regulations or rulings that impact the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders and such changes could negatively affect our business model. For example, limitations on the ability to bring patent enforcement claims, limitations on potential liability for patent infringement, lower evidentiary standards for invalidating patents, increases in the cost to resolve patent disputes and other similar developments could negatively affect our ability to assert our patent or other intellectual property rights. In September 2013, the Federal Trade Commission announced that it is planning to gather information from approximately 25 companies that are in the business of buying and asserting patents in order to develop a better understanding of how those companies do business and impact innovation and competition. Both the Federal Trade Commission and European Commission are actively considering what the appropriate restrictions are on the ability of owners of patents declared to technical standards to receive both injunctions and royalties. Furthermore, United States patent laws have been amended by the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act. The America Invents Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. In general, the legislation attempts to address issues surrounding the enforceability of patents and the increase in patent litigation by, among other things, establishing new procedures for patent litigation. For example, the America Invents Act changes the way that parties may be joined in patent infringement actions, increasing the likelihood that such actions will need to be brought against individual parties allegedly infringing by their respective individual actions or activities. At this time, it is not clear what, if any, impact the America Invents Act will have on the operation of our enforcement business. However, the America Invents Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the enforcement of our patented technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has conducted reviews of the patent system to evaluate the impact of patent assertion entities on industries in which those patents relate. It is possible that the findings and recommendations of the DOJ could impact the ability to effectively license and enforce standards-essential patents and could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the enforcement of any such patented technologies. Furthermore, in various pending litigation and appeals in the United States Federal courts, various arguments and legal theories are being advanced to potentially limit the scope of damages a patent licensing company such as us might be entitled to. Any one of these pending cases could result in new legal doctrines that could make our existing or future patent portfolios less valuable or more costly to enforce. Further, and in general, it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become enacted as laws. Compliance with any new or existing laws or regulations could be difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. That said, to date, we do not believe that any existing or proposed statutory or regulatory change has materially affected our business. Acquisitions of additional patent assets may be time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect our operating results. Acquisitions of patents or other intellectual property assets, which are and will be critical to our business plan, are often time consuming, complex and costly to consummate. We may utilize many different transaction structures in our acquisitions and the terms of such acquisition agreements tend to be heavily negotiated. As a result, we expect to incur significant operating expenses and will likely be required to raise capital during the negotiations even if the acquisition is ultimately not consummated. Even if we are able to acquire particular patents or other intellectual property assets, there is no guarantee that we will generate sufficient revenue related to those assets to offset the acquisition costs. While we will seek to conduct confirmatory due diligence on the patents or other intellectual property assets we are considering for acquisition, we may acquire such assets from a seller who does not have proper title to those assets. In those cases, we may be required to spend significant resources to defend our interest in such assets and, if we are not successful, our acquisition may be invalid, in which case we could lose part or all of our investment in those assets. 10 We may also identify patents or other intellectual property assets that cost more than we are prepared to spend with our own capital resources. We may incur significant costs to organize and negotiate a structured acquisition that does not ultimately result in an acquisition of any patents or other intellectual property assets or, if consummated, proves to be unprofitable for us. These higher costs could adversely affect our operating results, and if we incur losses, the value of our securities will decline. In addition, we may acquire patents and technologies that are in the early stages of adoption in the commercial, industrial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies will likely be untested and may be subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our licensees will adopt our patents and technologies in their products and services. As a result, there can be no assurance as to whether technologies we acquire or develop will have value that we can monetize. In certain acquisitions of patent assets, we may seek to defer payment or finance a portion of the acquisition price. This approach may put us at a competitive disadvantage and could result in harm to our business. We have limited capital and may seek to negotiate acquisitions of patent or other intellectual property assets where we can defer payments or finance a portion of the acquisition price. These types of debt financing or deferred payment arrangements may not be as attractive to sellers of patent assets as receiving the full purchase price for those assets in cash at the closing of the acquisition. As a result, we might not compete effectively against other companies in the market for acquiring patent assets, some of whom have greater cash resources than we have. Competition is intense in the industries in which our subsidiaries do business and as a result, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share for our technologies and patents. We expect to encounter competition in the area of patent acquisition and enforcement as the number of companies entering this market is increasing. This includes competitors seeking to acquire the same or similar patents and technologies that we may seek to acquire. As new technological advances occur, many of our patented technologies may become obsolete before they are completely monetized. If we are unable to replace obsolete technologies with more technologically advanced patented technologies, then this obsolescence could have a negative effect on our ability to generate future revenues. Our licensing business also competes with venture capital firms and various industry leaders for technology licensing opportunities. Many of these competitors may have more financial and human resources than we do. As we become more successful, we may find more companies entering the market for similar technology opportunities, which may reduce our market share in one or more technology industries that we currently rely upon to generate future revenue. Weak global economic conditions may cause infringing parties to delay entering into licensing agreements, which could prolong our litigation and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our business plan depends significantly on worldwide economic conditions, and the United States and world economies have recently experienced weak economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values. This response could have a material negative effect on the willingness of parties infringing on our assets to enter into licensing or other revenue generating agreements voluntarily. Entering into such agreements is critical to our business plan, and our failure to do so could cause material harm to our business. The exercise of a substantial number of warrants or options by our security holders may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Should our warrants outstanding as of February 21, 2014, be exercised, there would be an additional 17,800,673 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. In addition, we currently have incentive equity instruments outstanding to purchase 12,969,039 shares of our common stock granted to our management, employees, directors and consultants. Certain options granted to officers, directors and certain key employees are subject to acceleration of vesting of 75% and 100% (according to the agreement signed with each grantee), upon a subsequent change of control. Certain options granted in prior years that are outstanding have exercise prices that are below recent market prices. Such securities, if exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Therefore, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities and/or on our ability to obtain future financing. Future sales of our shares of common stock by our stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is otherwise performing well. As of February 21, 2014, we had 85,797,826 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, excluding shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants, options or restricted stock units (“RSUs”). As shares saleable under Rule 144 are sold or as restrictions on resale lapse, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly, if the holders of restricted shares sell them, or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. This decline in our stock price could occur even if our business is otherwise performing well. 11 Technology company stock prices are especially volatile, and this volatility may depress the price of our common stock. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies have been highly volatile. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, the following: · developments or disputes concerning our patents; · announcements of developments in our patent enforcement actions; · additions to or departures of our key personnel; · announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, capital commitments, new technologies, or patents; · new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; · changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and · general and industry-specific economic conditions. The market prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile and are likely to remain highly volatile in the future. The stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. Furthermore, we believe that fluctuations in our stock price can also be impacted by court rulings and/or other developments in our patent licensing and enforcement actions and stock price may reflect certain future growth and profitability expectations. If we fail to meet these expectations then our stock price may significantly decline which could have an adverse impact on investor confidence. Our ability to raise capital through equity or equity-linked transactions may be limited. In order for us to raise capital privately through equity or equity-linked transactions, stockholder approval is required to enable us to issue more than 19.99% of our outstanding shares of common stock pursuant to the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Capital Market. Should stockholders not approve such issuances, one means to raise capital would be through debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated balance sheet and overall financial condition. We may not be able to raise additional capital. Moreover, additional financing may have an adverse effect on the value of the equity instruments held by our stockholders. We may choose to raise additional funds in connection with any potential acquisition of patent portfolios or other intellectual property assets or operating businesses. In addition, we may also need additional funds to respond to business opportunities and challenges, including our ongoing operating expenses, protection of our assets, development of new lines of business and enhancement of our operating infrastructure. While we will need to seek additional funding, we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of our financings may be dilutive to, or otherwise adversely affect, holders of our common stock. We may also seek additional funds through arrangements with collaborators or other third parties. We may not be able to negotiate arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our business plans. Any such financing that we undertake will likely be dilutive to our current stockholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 