ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business We operate in a business that is cyclical and where demand can be volatile, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a business that is cyclical and where demand can be volatile, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The timing and magnitude of the cycles in the business in which we operate are difficult to predict. Purchase prices for the raw materials we purchase (metal ore and scrap metal), and selling prices for our products (metal ore, scrap and recycled metal) are volatile and beyond our control. While we attempt to respond to changing raw material costs through adjustments to the sales price of our products, our ability to do so is limited by competitive and other market factors. Differences in economic conditions between the foreign markets, where we acquire our metal ore and a significant portion of our scrap metal, and the markets in the PRC, where we sell our products, c ould have an impact on our operating income. A significant reduction in selling prices for our products may adversely impact both our operating income and our ability to recover purchase costs from end customers. A decline in market prices for our products between the date of the sales order and shipment of the product may impact the customer’s ability to obtain letters of credit to cover the full sales amount. A decline in selling prices for our products coupled with customers failing to meet their contractual obligations may also result in a net realizable value adjustment to the average cost of inventory to reflect the lower of cost or fair market value. Additionally, changing prices could potentially impact the volume of raw materials available to us, the volume of ore and processed metal sold by us and inventory levels. The cyclical nature of our businesses tends to reflect and be amplified by changes in general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. For example, during recess ions such as the one currently being experienced, the automobile and construction industries typically experience cutbacks in production, resulting in decreased demand for steel, copper and aluminum. This can lead to significant decreases in demand and pricing for our metal ore and recycled metal. Our business depends on adequate supply and availability of raw materials. Our business requires raw materials that are sourced from third-party suppliers. We rely on other suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions generally, which involves risks, including the possibility of increases in raw material costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. As a result, we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of quality raw materials in a timely or cost-effective manner. The principal markets we serve are highly competitive. Many factors influence our competitive position, including product differentiation, geographic location, contract terms, business practices, customer service and cost reductions through improved efficiencies. An increase in competition or our inability to remain competitive could cause us to lose market share, increase expenditures, and reduce pricing, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. - 11 - During uncertain economic conditions customers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. We enter into sales contracts preceded by negotiations that include fixing price, quantities, shipping terms and other contractual elements. Upon finalization of these terms and satisfactory completion of other contractual contingencies by us, our customers typically open a letter of credit to satisfy their obligation under the contract prior to shipment by us. Although not considered normal course of business, during uncertain economic conditions, we are at risk on consummating the transaction until successful completion of the letter of credit. As a result, the customer may not be able to fulfill our obligation under the contract in times of illiquid market conditions. If we were to lose order volumes from any of our major customers, our sales could decline significantly and our cash flows may be reduced. In 2009, our five largest customers were responsible for 79.0% of our total consolidated revenues. These customers purchase products from us on a spot or short term contract basis and may choose not to continue to purchase our products. A loss of order volumes from any major customer, including a related party, or a significant reduction in their purchase orders could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations by lowering sales volumes, increasing costs and lowering profitability. Equipment upgrades and equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. We have never operated a recycling facility until March 2010. Also, our recycling process depends upon critical pieces of equipment, including shredders and cranes, which may be out of service occasionally for scheduled upgrades or maintenance or as a result of unanticipated failures. Although construction of our recycling facilities was completed in March 2010, they are subject to equipment failures and the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, accidents or violent weather conditions. As a result, we may experience interruptions in our processing capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We need additional financing to fund expansion of our recycling facility and working capital for our metal ore business which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms. Additional capital raising efforts in future periods may be dilutive to our then current shareholders or result in increased interest expense in future periods. We need to raise additional capital to carry out our plans to expand the capacity of our recycling facility and increase the volume of our purchases of the metal ore we resell. Our future capital requirements depend on a number of factors, including the scope of our recycling facility expansion and the amount of available metal ore, the our ability to grow revenues from other sources, our ability to manage the growth of our business and our ability to control our expenses. Also, if we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt, this will result in increased interest expense. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our company held by existing shareholders will be reduced and those shareholders may experience significant dilution. As we will ge nerally not be required to obtain the consent of our shareholders if we elect to expand our recycling facility or purchase more raw materials required in our operations, shareholders are dependent upon the judgment of our management in determining the number of, and characteristics of, stock issued to raise funds for these purposes and others. In addition, new securities may contain certain rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the working capital as needed in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not raise capital as needed, our ability to expand our business will be limited. - 12 - We need to manage growth in operations to maximize our potential growth and achieve our expected revenues and our failure to manage growth will cause a disruption of our operations resulting in the failure to generate revenue. In order to maximize potential growth in our current and potential markets, we believe that we must expand our sales and marketing operations and efficiently operate our recently constructed scrap metal recycling facility. This expansion will place a significant strain on our management and our operational, accounting, and information systems. We expect that we will need to continue to improve our financial controls, operating procedures, and management information systems. We will also need to effectively recruit, train, motivate, and manage our employees. Our failure to manage our growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenues we expect. Certain agreements to which we are a party and which are material to our operations lack various legal protections which are customarily contained in similar contracts prepared in the United States. Our subsidiaries include companies organized under the laws of the PRC and all of their business and operations are conducted in the PRC and Hong Kong. We are a party to certain contracts related to our operations in the PRC and Hong Kong. While these contracts contain the basic business terms of the agreements between the parties, these contracts do not contain certain clauses which are customarily contained in similar contracts prepared in the U.S., such as representations and warranties of the parties, confidentiality and non-compete clauses, provisions outlining events of defaults, and termination and jurisdictional clauses. Because our contracts in the PRC omit these customary clauses, notwithstanding the differences in Chinese and U.S. laws, we may no t have the same legal protections as we would if the contracts contained these additional clauses. We anticipate that our Chinese and Hong Kong subsidiaries will likely enter into contracts in the future which will likewise omit these customary legal protections. While we have not been subject to any adverse consequences as a result of the omission of these customary clauses, and we consider the contracts to which we are a party to contain all the material terms of our business arrangements with the other party, future events may occur which lead to a dispute which could have been avoided if the contracts included customary clauses in conformity with U.S. standards. Contractual disputes which may arise from this lack of legal protection could divert management's time from the operation of our business, require us to expend funds attempting to settle a possible dispute, limit the time our management would otherwise devote to the operation of our business, and have a material a dverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key management personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, Kexuan Yao, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Fengtao Wen, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, revenues or prospects. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of these individuals. - 13 - Risks Related To Doing Business in China A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in the PRC and are subject to changes resulting from the political and economic policies of the PRC government. Our business operations could be restricted by the political environment in the PRC. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since 1949 and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. In recent years, however, the government has introduced reforms aimed at creating a "socialist market economy" and policies have been implemented to allow business enterprises greater autonomy in their operations. Changes in the political leadership of the PRC may have a significant effect on laws and policies related to the current economic reform programs, other policies affecting business and the general political, economic and social environment in the PRC, including the introduction of measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad, and foreign investment. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation or increases of such disparities could affect the political or social stability of the PRC. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the PRC, the future direction of these economic reforms is uncertain and the uncertainty may decrease the attractiveness of our company as an investment, which may in turn result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the current PRC governmental policies of economic reform will continue. Because of this uncertainty, there are significant economic risks associated with doing business in the PRC. Although the majority of productive assets in the PRC are owned by the Chinese government, in the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourages private economic activity. In keeping with these economic reform policies, the PRC has been openly promoting business development in order to bring more business into the PRC. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffective, there are no assurances that: · the Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; · economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; · policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; or · operations in the PRC will not become subject to the risk of nationalization. We cannot assure you that we will be able to capitalize on these economic reforms, assuming the reforms continue. Because our business model is dependent upon the continued economic reform and growth in the PRC, any change in Chinese government policy could materially adversely affect our ability to continue to expand our business. The PRC's economy has experienced significant growth in the past decade, but such growth has been uneven across geographic and economic sectors and has recently been slowing. Even if the Chinese government continues its policies of economic reform, there are no assurances that economic growth in the PRC will continue or that we will be able to take advantage of these opportunities in a fashion that will provide financial benefit to us. - 14 - The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which our PRC subsidiaries must conduct their business activities. The PRC only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions of the PRC, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in our Chinese subsidiaries. Future inflation in the PRC may inhibit economic activity in the PRC. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past 10 years, the rate of inflation in the PRC has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the PRC government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation in the future could cause the PRC government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in the PRC. Any actions by the PRC government to regulate growth and contain inflation could have the effect of limiting our ability to grow our revenues in future per iods. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could interrupt our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: • quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations; • the sickness or death of our key management and employees; or • a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. An occurrence of any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could result in a loss of revenues in future periods and could impact our ability to conduct the operations of our Chinese subsidiaries as they are presently conducted. If we were unable to continue the operations of our Chinese subsidiaries as they are now conducted, our revenues in future periods would decline and our ability to continue as a going concern could be in jeopardy. If we were unable to continue as a going concern, you could lose your entire investment in our company. - 15 - Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. We may not have ready access to cash on deposit in banks in the PRC. Because a substantial portion of our revenues are in the form of Renminbi (RMB), the main currency used in the PRC, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside the PRC or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. Dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to government approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that we could have ready access to the cash should we wish to transfer it to bank accounts outside the PRC nor can we be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. We may be unable to enforce our rights due to policies regarding the regulation of foreign investments in the PRC. The PRC's legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedent, unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. The PRC does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion and variation, and may be subject to influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. The PRC's regulations and policies with respect to foreign investments are evolving. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been pub lished. Statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broad interpretation and discretion and to be modified, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. The uncertainties regarding such regulations and policies present risks which may affect our current operations and future plans in the PRC. If we are unable to enforce any legal rights we may have under our contracts or otherwise, our ability to compete with other companies in the steel industry could be limited which could result in a loss of revenue in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that may limit or adversely affect our ability to complete a business combination with PRC companies. Regulations were issued on November 1, 2005 (SAFE Circular 75), on September 2006 (2006 M&A Rules), and on May 29, 2007 (SAFE Implementation Notice 106), by the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, that will require approvals from, and registrations with, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities; however, there has been a recent announcement that such regulations may be partially reversed. The SAFE regulations retroactively require approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. The regulations discussed could also result in the relevant Chinese government authorities limiting or eliminating our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future, which could limit or eliminate our ability to pay dividends in the future. More recently, however, new regulations have been drafted that would partially reverse the policy that requires Chinese companies to obtain permission from SAFE to own overseas corporate entities. - 16 - As a result of the lack of implementing rules, the uncertainty as to when the new draft regulations will take effect, and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how these existing regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We believe that our acquisition of Armco & Metawise complies with the relevant rules. As a result of the foregoing, however, we cannot assure you that we or the former owners of Armco & Metawise or owners of a target business we might acquire, as the case may be, will be able to complete the necessary approval, filings and registrations for a proposed business combination if such approval were required. This may restrict our ability to implement our business combination strategy and adversely affect our operations. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. PRC companies have in some cases, been resistant to the adoption of Western styles of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which include sufficient corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulties in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards with future acquisitions. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls. Any such d eficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Securities Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a take-over which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects, which include when and by whom special meetings of our stockholders may be called, and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt. In addition, certain provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes also may be deemed to have certain anti-takeover effects which include that control of shares acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds will not possess any voting rights unless these voting rights are approved by a majority of a corporation's disinterested stockholders. Further, our Articles of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors in their sole discretion. Our B oard of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue series of preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. - 17 - Our controlling security holders may take actions that conflict with your interests. All of our officers and directors beneficially own 48.6% of our common stock. In this case, all of our officers and directors will be able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions, and they will have significant control over our management and policies. The directors elected by these security holders will be able to significantly influence decisions affecting our capital structure. This control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other security holders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. For example, our controlling security holders will be able to con trol the sale or other disposition of our operating businesses and subsidiaries to another entity. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Securities and Exchange Commission encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other written and oral statements that we make from time to time contain such forward-looking statements that set out anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions regarding future events or performance. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. A list of factors that could cause our actual results of operations and financial condition to differ materially is set forth below, and these factors are discussed in greater detail under Item 1A – “Risk Factors” of this report. • We operate in a business that is cyclical and where demand can be volatile. • Our dependence on adequate supply and availability of raw materials. • The principal markets we serve are highly competitive. • Our customers’ inability to fulfill their contractual obligations during uncertain economic conditions. • Loss of order volumes from any of our major customers could result in a significant decline in our sales and our cash flows may be reduced. • Equipment upgrades and equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. • Our need for additional financing to fund expansion of our recycling facility and working capital for our metal ore business and the potentially dilutive effects of those activities. • Our ability to manage growth in operations to maximize our potential growth and achieve our expected revenues. • The lack various legal protections in certain agreements to which we are a party and which are material to our operations which are customarily contained in similar contracts prepared in the United States. • Our dependence on our key management personnel. • The effect of changes resulting from the political and economic policies of the Chinese government on our assets and operations located in the PRC. • The influence of the Chinese government over the manner in which our Chinese subsidiaries must conduct our business activities. • The impact on future inflation in the PRC on economic activity in the PRC. • The impact of any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SAR’s, or another widespread public health problem. - 18 - • The limitation on our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively as a result of restrictions on currency exchange in the PRC. • Our ability to enforce our rights due to policies regarding the regulation of foreign investments in the PRC. • The restrictions imposed under recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by Chinese residents and the increased administrative burden we face and the creation of regulatory uncertainties that may limit or adversely affect our ability to complete the business combination with our PRC based subsidiaries. • Our ability to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. • Our ability to establish adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. • The provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws which may delay or prevent a takeover which may not be in the best interests of our shareholders. • Our controlling stockholders may take actions that conflict with your interests. We caution that the factors described herein and other factors could cause our actual results of operations and financial condition to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we make and that investors should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of such factors. Further, we cannot assess the impact of each such factor on our results of operations or the extent to w hich any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable to a smaller reporting company 