D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry — Third parties have brought intellectual property infringement claims against us in the past, and may bring similar claims in the future.” Dividend Policy On May 9, 2005, we declared a cash dividend of RMB 16 million to holders of our ordinary shares and preference shares in proportion to their respective share ownership, on an as converted basis, of RMB 12.3 million and RMB 3.7 million, respectively. On December 22, 2006, we declared a cash dividend of RMB 76 million to holders of our ordinary shares and preference shares in proportion to their respective share ownership, on an as converted basis, of RMB 58.3 million and RMB 17.7 million, respectively. On December 19, 2008, we declared a cash dividend of US$ 0.56 per ordinary shares for fiscal 2008 to shareholders as of December 31, 2008, amounted totally to RMB 137.5 million (US$ 20.1 million), of which RMB 51.3 million (US$ 7.5 million) was out of our retained earnings and the remaining RMB 86.2 million (US$ 12.6 million) out of our addition-paid-in capital. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries in China to fund our payment of dividends, if any, to our shareholders. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a certain amount of its accumulated after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. Further, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Furthermore, the new PRC enterprise income tax law that became effective on January 1, 2008 eliminates the current exemption of enterprise income tax on dividend derived by foreign investors from foreign invested enterprises and imposes on our subsidiaries in China an obligation to withhold tax on dividend distributions to their non-PRC shareholders, provided that such non-PRC shareholders are not classified as resident enterprises. Our board of directors has complete discretion as to whether to distribute dividends, subject to the approval of our shareholders. Even if our board of directors decides to pay dividends, the form, frequency and amount will depend upon our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant. Our board of directors has no intention to distribute any dividends in the near future. If we pay any dividends, the depositary will pay you the dividends it receives on our ordinary shares, after deducting its fees and expenses. Cash dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be paid in U.S. dollars. B. Significant Changes Except as disclosed elsewhere in this annual report, we have not experienced any significant changes since the date of our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. 75 Table of Contents Item 9. The Offer and Listing A. Offer and Listing Details The following table provides the high and low trading prices for our ADSs on The New York Stock Exchange for the periods indicated since our initial public offering. Sales Price High Low Yearly High and Low Fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 (from October 19, 2007) 23.70 4.76 Fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 5.91 1.85 Quarterly High and Low Fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2007 23.70 6.45 Fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008 8.40 4.76 Fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008 8.49 5.13 Fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2008 5.91 3.45 Fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2008 4.27 1.85 Fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009 3.55 2.30 Fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009 4.78 2.88 Fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009 5.42 3.50 Monthly Highs and Lows May 2009 4.47 3.02 June 2009 4.78 3.70 July 2009 4.96 3.50 August 2009 5.42 4.35 September 2009 5.15 4.31 October 2009 5.90 4.31 November 2009 (through November 19) 6.16 4.72 B. Plan of Distribution Not applicable. C. Markets Our ADSs, each representing one ordinary share, have been listed on The New York Stock Exchange since October 19, 2007 under the symbol “NED.” D. Selling Shareholders Not applicable. E. Dilution Not applicable. F. Expenses of the Issue Not applicable. Item 10. Additional Information A. Share Capital Not applicable. B. Memorandum and Articles of Association We are a Cayman Islands company and our affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and the Companies Law (2009 Revision) of the Cayman Islands, which is referred to as the Companies Law below. 76 Table of Contents As of the date of this annual report, our authorized share capital consists of 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares at the par value of US$ 0.00005 each. The following are summaries of material provisions of our currently effective amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and the Companies Law insofar as they relate to the material terms of our ordinary shares. Ordinary Shares General. All of our outstanding ordinary shares are fully paid and non-assessable. Certificates representing the ordinary shares are issued in registered form. Our shareholders who are nonresidents of the Cayman Islands may freely hold and vote their shares. Dividends. The holders of our ordinary shares are entitled to such dividends as may be declared by our board of directors from funds lawfully available therefor. Voting Rights. Voting at any shareholders’ meeting is by show of hands unless a poll is demanded. On a show of hands, every shareholder will have one vote, and on a poll, every shareholder will have one vote for each share registered in his name in the register of members. A poll may be demanded by our chairman or any shareholder holding not less than 10% of the shares giving a right to vote at the meeting, present in person or by proxy. A quorum required for a meeting of shareholders consists of shareholders present in person or by proxy or, if a corporation or other non-natural person, by its duly authorized representative, holding at least one third of the issued voting share capital. Shareholders’ meetings may be (but are not required to be) held annually and may also be convened by our board of directors on its own initiative or upon a request to the directors by shareholders holding in aggregate not less than one-third of our voting share capital. Advance notice of at least 14 days is required for the convening of our annual general meeting and other shareholders’ meetings. An ordinary resolution to be passed by the shareholders requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority of the votes attaching to the ordinary shares cast in a general meeting, while a special resolution requires the affirmative vote of no less than two-thirds of the votes attaching to the ordinary shares cast in a general meeting. A special resolution is required for important matters such as an amendment to our memorandum and articles of association and a change of name. Holders of the ordinary shares may effect certain changes by ordinary resolution, including altering the amount of our authorized share capital, sub-dividing our existing shares, consolidating and dividing all or any of our share capital into shares of larger amount than our existing shares, and cancelling any unissued shares. Transfer of Shares. Subject to the restrictions of our memorandum and articles of association, as applicable, any of our shareholders may transfer all or any of his or her ordinary shares by an instrument of transfer in the usual or common form or any other form approved by our board. Our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, decline to register any transfer of any ordinary share which is not fully paid up or on which we have a lien. If our directors refuse to register a transfer they must, within two months after the date on which the instrument of transfer was lodged, send to each of the transferor and the transferee notice of such refusal. The registration of transfers may, on 14 days’ notice being given by advertisement in such one or more newspapers or by electronic means, be suspended and the register closed at such times and for such periods as our board of directors may from time to time determine, provided, however, that the registration of transfers may not be suspended nor the register closed for more than 30 days in any year. Liquidation. On a return of capital on winding up or otherwise (other than on conversion, redemption or purchase of shares), proceeds from disposition of assets lawfully available for distribution among the holders of ordinary shares must be distributed among the holders of the ordinary shares on a pro rata basis. Calls on Shares and Forfeiture of Shares. Our board of directors may from time to time make calls upon shareholders for any amounts unpaid on their shares in a notice served to such shareholders at least 14 days prior to the specified time and place of payment. The shares that have been called upon and remain unpaid within the specified time are subject to forfeiture. Redemption of Shares. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Law, we may issue shares on terms that are subject to redemption, at our option or at the option of the holders, on such terms and in such manner as the directors may, before the issue of shares, determine. 77 Table of Contents Variations of Rights of Shares. All or any of the special rights attached to any class of shares may, subject to our articles of association, be varied either with the written consent of the holders of a majority of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a general meeting of the holders of the shares of that class. Inspection of Books and Records. Holders of our ordinary shares will have no general right under Cayman Islands law to inspect or obtain copies of our list of shareholders or our corporate records. However, we will provide our shareholders with annual audited financial statements. See “Item 10. Additional Information ¾ H. Documents on Display.” Limitations on the Rights to Own Shares: There are no limitations on the right to own our shares. Disclosure of Shareholder Ownership: There are no provisions in our proposed amended and restated memorandum and articles of association governing the ownership threshold above which shareholder ownership must be disclosed. Differences in Corporate Law The Companies Law is modeled after that of the United Kingdom but does not follow recent United Kingdom statutory enactments. In addition, the Companies Law differs from laws applicable to Delaware corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of the significant differences between the provisions of the Companies Law applicable to us and the laws applicable to companies incorporated in Delaware and their shareholders. Mergers and Similar Arrangements. The Companies Law permits mergers and consolidations between Cayman Islands companies and between Cayman Islands companies and non-Cayman Islands companies. For these purposes: • a “merger” means the merging of two or more constituent companies and the vesting of their undertaking, property and liabilities in one of such companies as the surviving company; and • a “consolidation” means the combination of two or more constituent companies into a consolidated company and the vesting of the undertaking, property and liabilities of such companies to the consolidated company. In order to effect such a merger or consolidation, the directors of each constituent company must approve a written plan of merger or consolidation, which must then be authorized by either: • a special resolution of the shareholders of each constituent company voting together as one class, if the shares to be issued to each shareholder in the consolidated or surviving company will have the same rights and economic value as the shares held in the relevant constituent company; or • a shareholder resolution of each constituent company passed by a majority in number representing 75% in value of the shareholders voting together as one class. The plan of merger or consolidation must be filed with the Registrar of Companies together with a declaration as to the solvency of the consolidated or surviving company, a list of the assets and liabilities of each constituent company and an undertaking that a copy of the certificate of merger or consolidation will be given to the members and creditors of each constituent company and published in the Cayman Islands Gazette. Dissenting shareholders have the right to be paid the fair value of their shares if they follow the required procedures, subject to certain exceptions. The fair value of the shares will be determined by the Cayman Islands court if it cannot be agreed among the parties. Court approval is not required for a merger or consolidation which is effected in compliance with these statutory procedures. 78 Table of Contents In addition, there are statutory provisions that facilitate the reconstruction and amalgamation of companies, provided that the arrangement is approved by a majority in number of each class of shareholders and creditors with whom the arrangement is to be made, and who must in addition represent three-fourths in value of each such class of shareholders or creditors, as the case may be, that are present and voting either in person or by proxy at a meeting, or meetings, convened for that purpose. The convening of the meetings and subsequently the arrangement must be sanctioned by the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands. While a dissenting shareholder has the right to express to the court the view that the transaction ought not to be approved, the court can be expected to approve the arrangement if it determines that: • the statutory provisions as to majority vote have been met; • the shareholders have been fairly represented at the meeting in question; • the arrangement is such that a businessman would reasonably approve; and • the arrangement is not one that would more properly be sanctioned under some other provision of the Companies Law. When a take-over offer is made and accepted by holders of 90.0% of the shares within four months, the offerer may, within a two month period, require the holders of the remaining shares to transfer such shares on the terms of the offer. An objection can be made to the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands but this is unlikely to succeed unless there is evidence of fraud, bad faith or collusion. If the arrangement and reconstruction is thus approved, the dissenting shareholder would have no rights comparable to appraisal rights, which would otherwise ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of Delaware corporations, providing rights to receive payment in cash for the judicially determined value of the shares. Shareholders’ Suits. The Cayman Islands courts can be expected to follow English case law precedents. The Cayman Islands courts have applied and followed common law principles that permit a minority shareholder to commence a class action against the company or a derivative action in the name of the company to challenge (a) an act that is outside the company’s corporate powers or that is illegal, (b) an act constituting a fraud against the minority where the wrongdoers are themselves in control of the company, and (c) an action requiring a resolution passed by a qualified or special majority that has not been obtained. We are not aware of any reported class action or derivative action having been brought in a Cayman Islands court. In principle, we will normally be the proper plaintiff and a derivative action may not be brought by a minority shareholder. However, based on English authorities, which would in all likelihood be of persuasive authority in the Cayman Islands, exceptions to the foregoing principle apply in circumstances in which: • a company is acting or proposing to act illegally or ultra vires; • the act complained of, although not ultra vires, could be effected duly if authorized by more than a simple majority vote which has not been obtained; and • those who control the company are perpetrating a “fraud on the minority.” Directors’ Fiduciary Duties. Under Delaware corporate law, a director of a Delaware corporation has a fiduciary duty to the corporation and its shareholders. This duty has two components, the duty of care and the duty of loyalty. The duty of care requires that a director act in good faith, with the care that an ordinarily prudent person would exercise under similar circumstances. Under this duty, a director must inform himself of, and disclose to shareholders, all material information reasonably available regarding a significant transaction. The duty of loyalty requires that a director must act in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the corporation. A director must not use his or her corporate position for personal gain or advantage. This duty prohibits self-dealing by a director and mandates that the best interests of the corporation and its shareholders take precedence over any interest possessed by a director, officer or controlling shareholder not shared by the shareholders generally. In general, actions of a director are presumed to have been made on an informed basis, in good faith and in the honest belief that the action taken was in the best interests of the corporation. However, this presumption may be rebutted by evidence of a breach of one of the fiduciary duties. Should such evidence be presented concerning a transaction by a director, the director must prove the procedural fairness of the transaction and that the transaction was of fair value to the corporation. 79 Table of Contents As a matter of Cayman Islands law, a director of a Cayman Islands company is in the position of a fiduciary with respect to the company, and therefore it is considered that he or she owes the following duties to the company—a duty to act bona fide in the best interests of the company, a duty not to make a profit out of his or her position as director (unless the company permits him or her to do so) and a duty not to put himself or herself in a position where the interests of the company conflict with his or her personal interests or his or her duty to a third party. A director of a Cayman Islands company owes to the company a duty to act with skill and care. It was previously considered that a director need not exhibit in the performance of his or her duties a greater degree of skill than may reasonably be expected from a person of his or her knowledge and experience. However, there are indications that the courts are moving towards an objective standard with regard to the required skill and care. Under our memorandum and articles of association, directors who are in any way, whether directly or indirectly, interested in a contract or proposed contract with our company are required to declare the nature of their interest at a meeting of the board of directors. Following such declaration, a director may vote in respect of any contract or proposed contract notwithstanding his interest. Shareholder Action by Written Resolution. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation may eliminate the right of shareholders to act by written consent by amendment to its certificate of incorporation. Under Cayman Islands law, a corporation may eliminate the ability of shareholders to approve corporate matters by way of written resolution signed by or on behalf of each shareholder who would have been entitled to vote on such matters at a general meeting without a meeting being held. Our memorandum and articles of association allow shareholders to act by written resolutions. Shareholder Proposals. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, a shareholder has the right to put any proposal before the annual meeting of shareholders, provided it complies with the notice provisions in the governing documents. A special meeting may be called by the board of directors or any other person authorized to do so in the governing documents, but shareholders may be precluded from calling special meetings. Cumulative Voting. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, cumulative voting for elections of directors is not permitted unless the corporation’s certificate of incorporation specifically provides for it. Cumulative voting potentially facilitates the representation of minority shareholders on a board of directors since it permits the minority shareholder to cast all the votes to which the shareholder is entitled for a single director, which increases the shareholder’s voting power with respect to electing such director. As permitted under Cayman Islands law, our memorandum and articles of association do not provide for cumulative voting. Removal of Directors. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, a director of a corporation with a classified board may be removed only for cause with the approval of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote, unless the certificate of incorporation provides otherwise. Under our memorandum and articles of association, directors can be removed by the passing of a special resolution. Transactions with Interested Shareholders. The Delaware General Corporation Law contains a business combination statute applicable to Delaware public corporations whereby, unless the corporation has specifically elected not to be governed by such statute by amendment to its certificate of incorporation, it is prohibited from engaging in certain business combinations with an “interested shareholder” for three years following the date on which such person becomes an interested shareholder. An interested shareholder generally is one which owns or owned 15% or more of the target’s outstanding voting shares within the past three years. This has the effect of limiting the ability of a potential acquirer to make a two-tiered bid for the target in which all shareholders would not be treated equally. The statute does not apply if, among other things, prior to the date on which such shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, the board of directors approves either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the person becoming an interested shareholder. This encourages any potential acquirer of a Delaware public corporation to negotiate the terms of any acquisition transaction with the target’s board of directors. Cayman Islands law has no comparable statute. As a result, we cannot avail ourselves of the types of protections afforded by the Delaware business combination statute. However, although Cayman Islands law does not regulate transactions between a company and its significant shareholders, it does provide that such transactions entered into must be bona fide in the best interests of the company and not with the effect of perpetrating a fraud on the minority shareholders. 80 Table of Contents Dissolution; Winding Up. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, unless the board of directors approves the proposal to dissolve, dissolution must be approved by shareholders holding 100% of the total voting power of the corporation. Only if the dissolution is initiated by the board of directors may it be approved by a simple majority of the corporation’s outstanding shares. The Delaware General Corporation Law allows a Delaware corporation to include in its certificate of incorporation a supermajority voting requirement in connection with dissolutions initiated by the board of directors. Under our memorandum and articles of association, if our company is wound up, the liquidator of our company may distribute the assets only by the vote of holders of a majority of our outstanding shares being entitled to vote in person or by proxy at a shareholder meeting. Variation of Rights of Shares. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation may vary the rights of a class of shares with the approval of a majority of the outstanding shares of such class, unless the certificate of incorporation provides otherwise. Under Cayman Islands law and our memorandum and articles of association, if our share capital is divided into more than one class of shares, we may vary the rights attached to any class only with the vote of holders of a majority of the shares of such class entitled to vote in person or by proxy at a shareholder meeting. Amendment of Governing Documents. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation’s governing documents may be amended with the approval of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote, unless the certificate of incorporation provides otherwise. Our memorandum and articles of association may only be amended with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a general meeting of holders of shares of that class or with the sanction of the holders of a majority of the issued shares of that class. Inspection of Books and Records. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, any shareholder of a corporation may for any proper purpose inspect or make copies of the corporation’s stock ledger, list of shareholders and other books and records. Holders of our shares will have no general right under Cayman Islands law to inspect or obtain copies of our list of shareholders or our corporate records. However, we intend to provide our shareholders with annual reports containing audited financial statements. Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Memorandum and Articles of Association. Some provisions of our memorandum and articles of association may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or management that shareholders may consider favorable, including provisions that authorize our board of directors to issue preference shares in one or more series and to designate the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such preference shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. However, under Cayman Islands law, our directors may only exercise the rights and powers granted to them under our memorandum and articles of association for a proper purpose and for what they believe in good faith to be in the best interests of our company. Rights of Non-Resident or Foreign Shareholders. There are no limitations imposed by Cayman Islands law or by our memorandum and articles of association on the rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or exercise voting rights on our shares. In addition, there are no provisions in our memorandum and articles of association governing the ownership threshold above which shareholder ownership must be disclosed. Indemnification. Cayman Islands law does not limit the extent to which a company’s articles of association may provide for indemnification of officers and directors, except to the extent any such provision may be held by the Cayman Islands courts to be contrary to public policy, such as to provide indemnification against civil fraud or the consequences of committing a crime. Under our memorandum and articles of association, we may indemnify our directors and officers against costs, charges, expenses, judgments losses, damages or liabilities sustained by such persons in connection with actions or proceedings to which they are party or are threatened to be made a party by reason of their acting as our directors or officers, other than as a result of such person’s actual fraud or willful default. We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and executive officers to indemnify them to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and our articles of association, from and against all costs, charges, expenses, liabilities and losses incurred in connection with any litigation, suit or proceeding to which such director is or is threatened to be made a party, witness or other participant, except in certain situations involving gross negligence or misconduct, or deliberate and purposeful dishonesty or fraud. 81 Table of Contents Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act may be permitted to directors, officers or persons controlling us under the foregoing provisions, we have been advised that in the opinion of the SEC such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and therefore is unenforceable. Registration Rights Pursuant to the restated and amended shareholders agreement dated March 7, 2007, we have granted certain registration rights to holders of our registrable securities, which mean ordinary shares issued to or to be issued to our Series A preference shareholders. Set forth below is a description of the registration rights granted under the agreement. Demand Registration Rights. At any time commencing six months after our initial public offering, holders of at least 5% of all our issued and outstanding share capital on a fully diluted and as converted basis have the right to demand that we file a registration statement covering the offer and sale of their securities. We, however, are not obligated to effect a demand registration (1) after we have already effected three demand registrations, (2) during the period beginning on the 60th business day prior to our good faith estimate of the filing date of, and ending on the 180th business day after the effective date of, a public offering of our securities initiated by us, (3) if the securities to be registered can be registered on Form F-3, (4) less than 30% of registrable securities are requested for registration, or (5) within 6 months preceding the request we effected a registration as requested or on Form F-3, or in which holders of registrable securities may participate pursuant to provisions for piggyback registration. We have the right to defer filing of a registration statement for up to 90 days if we provide the requesting holders a certificate signed by either our president or chief executive officer stating that in the good faith judgment of our board of directors that filing of a registration statement will be seriously detrimental to us and our shareholders for such registration statement to be in effect at such time, but we cannot exercise the deferral right more than once in any 12-month period and we cannot register any securities for the account of ourselves or any other shareholder during such 90-day period. Piggyback Registration Rights. If we propose to file a registration statement for a public offering of our securities other than, among other things, pursuant to an F-3 registration statement or other than relating to a stock option plan or a corporate reorganization, then we must offer holders of registrable securities an opportunity to include in the registration all or any part of their registrable securities. The underwriters of any underwritten offering will have the right to limit the number of shares having registration rights to be included in the registration statement. Form F-3 Registration Rights. When we are eligible for use of Form F-3, holders of our registrable securities then outstanding have the right to request that we file a registration statement under Form F-3. We are not obligated to file a registration statement on Form F-3 (1) if we have, within the six-month period preceding the date of such request, already effected one registration, (2) if Form F-3 is not available for the offering by holders of registrable securities, or (3) if holders of registrable securities propose to sell such securities at an aggregate price of less than US$ 1 million. We have the right to defer filing of a registration statement for up to 90 days if we provide the requesting holders a certificate signed by either our president or chief executive officer stating that in the good faith judgment of the board of directors that filing of a registration statement will be seriously detrimental to us and our shareholders for such registration statement to be in effect at such time, but we cannot exercise the deferral right more than once in any 12-month period and we cannot register any securities for the account of ourselves or any other shareholder during such 90-day period. Expenses of Registration. We will pay all expenses, other than underwriting discounts and commissions, relating to any demand, piggyback or F-3 registration. C. Material Contracts We have not entered into any material contracts other than in the ordinary course of business and other than those described in “