ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently treat as immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We are an early-stage medical device company with a limited operating history and our business may not become profitable. We are an early-stage medical device company with a limited operating history. Our only current or planned products with 510(k) marketing clearance from the FDA are versions 1.0 and 1.2 of our Tactile Guidance System, or TGS, and inlay and onlay implant systems for use in unicompartmental knee resurfacing procedures. We also may not be successful in our research and development efforts for version 2.0 of the TGS and a modular knee implant system, which would allow multicompartmental knee resurfacing procedures. The future success of our business depends on our ability to develop and obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for these products, especially version 2.0 of the TGS and the modular knee implant system, which we may be unable to do in a timely manner, or at all. Our success and ability to generate revenue or be profitable also depends on our ability to establish our sales and marketing force, generate product sales and control costs, all of which we may be unable to do. We have a limited history of operations upon which you can evaluate our business and our operating expenses are increasing. Our lack of any significant operating history also limits your ability to make a comparative evaluation of us, our products and our prospects. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We have sustained net losses in every fiscal year since our inception in 2004, including a net loss of $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $42.8 million. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses as we increase our sales and marketing activities and otherwise continue to invest capital in the development of our products and our business generally. We also expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase due to additional operational and regulatory burdens associated with operating as a public company. We are required to defer revenue associated with sales of our TGS units until we have fulfilled our contractual obligation to deliver version 2.0 of our TGS to the customer. Therefore, our deferred revenue will be higher in the short term and we may not be able to recognize some or any of our deferred revenue until we have satisfied all obligations for delivery of product upgrades, which we may be unable to do. Our losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ deficit and working capital. Any failure to achieve and maintain profitability would continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ deficit and working capital and could result in a decline in our stock price or cause us to cease operations. 41 Table of Contents We rely heavily on intellectual property that we license from others, and if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses that we may need, our ability to compete will be harmed. We rely heavily on intellectual property that we license or sublicense from others, including patented technology that is integral to our TGS and implants. As of January 1, 2008, we had licensed rights to 118 U.S. and 47 foreign third-party granted patents, and we had licensed rights to 22 U.S. and 40 foreign third-party pending patent applications. The majority of these patents and applications are either used in our current products or relate to core technologies used in our products, such as computer assisted surgery, or CAS, robotics, haptics and implants. Nine of the licensed U.S. patents (and three related foreign patents) will expire by the end of 2009. Two of these U.S. patents (and all three related foreign patents) are CAS patents, and three of these U.S. patents relate to robotic technology. These five U.S. patents (and the foreign patents) are considered material to our intellectual property portfolio because they potentially enable us to exclude others from practicing the claimed technology. Our portfolio also includes 19 wholly-owned pending U.S. patent applications, 21 pending foreign applications and other intellectual property that is wholly-owned by us. We are particularly dependent on our licensing arrangements with Z-KAT, Inc., or Z-KAT, from whom we license or sublicense, among other things, core technologies in CAS, and haptics and robotics. We also rely on our licensing arrangement with Stelkast (a business division of Trigon Incorporated), pursuant to which we have specified rights to the design of our inlay knee implant system, and our licensing arrangement with Encore Medical, L.P., pursuant to which we have certain rights to the design of our onlay knee implant system. Any of these or other third parties may terminate a license in the event that we fail to make required payments or for other causes. In the event a third party terminates a license agreement, we cannot assure you that we could acquire another license to adequately replace the product, technology or method covered by the terminated license. If we fail to maintain our current licenses, our ability to compete in the knee implant market will be harmed. In addition, as we enhance our current product offerings and develop new ones, including version 2.0 of our TGS and a modular knee implant system, we may find it advisable or necessary to seek additional licenses from third parties who hold patents covering technology or methods used in these products. If we cannot obtain these additional licenses, we could be forced to design around those patents at additional cost or abandon the product altogether. As a result, our ability to grow our business and compete in the knee implant market may be harmed. 42 Table of Contents We are currently required by the FDA to refrain from using certain terms to label and market our products, which could harm our ability to market and commercialize our current or future products. On September 28, 2007, we submitted a Special 510(k) application to the FDA for version 1.2 of our TGS which the FDA indicated was converted to a Traditional 510(k) application. On November 1, 2007, the FDA provided us with a letter requesting additional information in which the FDA, among other things, asked us to justify our proposed use of the terms “haptic” and “robot” in the labeling of version 1.2 of our TGS. Through subsequent correspondence and communications, the FDA indicated that we needed to use the term “tactile” in lieu of “haptic” and the term “robotic-arm” in lieu of “robotic,” as appropriate, when these terms are used to market our products and in order to obtain timely clearance of our 510(k) submission for version 1.2. The FDA granted 510(k) clearance in January 2008 for version 1.2 of our TGS with those terms. Because the FDA currently requires us to use the terms “tactile” or “robotic-arm,” we have revised the promotional and labeling materials for our existing TGS products, and may need to consider the use of modified language for our future products. As a result, our ability to market and commercialize our products and our growth may be harmed. Modifications to our currently FDA-cleared products or the introduction of new products may require new regulatory clearances or approvals or require us to recall or cease marketing our current products until clearances or approvals are obtained. In November 2005, we obtained 510(k) marketing clearance from the FDA for version 1.0 of our TGS for use with our FDA-cleared inlay implant system. We were not required to obtain premarket approval, or PMA. We were also not required to conduct any clinical trials in support of our application for 510(k) marketing clearance. Modifications to our products, however, may require new regulatory approvals or clearances or require us to recall or cease marketing the modified products until these clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modification to one of our 510(k)-cleared products that would constitute a major change in its intended use, or any change that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device would require us to obtain a new 510(k) clearance and may even, in some circumstances, require the submission of a PMA, if the change raises complex or novel scientific issues or the product has a new intended use. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) submission in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision. Since obtaining 510(k) marketing clearance for version 1.0 of our TGS, we developed and commercially introduced several upgrades to our TGS that we believe did not require additional clearances or approvals. Our Special 510(k) application for version 1.2, which the FDA converted to a Traditional 510(k) application and cleared in January 2008, incorporated these upgrades. We may make additional modifications in the future to our TGS without seeking additional clearances or approvals if we believe such clearances or approvals are not necessary. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and stop marketing our products as modified, which could cause us to redesign our products, conduct clinical trials to support any modifications, and pay significant regulatory fines or penalties. Any of these actions would harm our operating results. We may not be successful in obtaining 510(k) marketing clearances or other required approvals for version 2.0 of our TGS and the modular knee implant system, which version 2.0 will be designed to support. Obtaining clearances and approvals can be a difficult and time consuming process, and we may not be able to obtain any of these or other clearances or approvals in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, the FDA may not approve or clear these products for the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization or could require clinical trials to support any modifications. Any delay or failure in obtaining required clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. 43 Table of Contents Moreover, clearances and approvals are subject to continual review, and the later discovery of previously unknown problems can result in product labeling restrictions or withdrawal of the product from the market. The loss of previously received approvals or clearances, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could reduce our sales, profitability and future growth prospects. We depend on the success of a single line of products for our revenue, which could impair our ability to achieve profitability. We expect to derive most of our revenue from capital sales of our TGS units, recurring sales of implants and disposable products required for each MAKOplasty procedure, and service plans that are sold with our TGS units. Currently, the only line of products that has been commercially introduced or received 510(k) marketing clearance is versions 1.0 and 1.2 of our TGS and the inlay and onlay knee implant systems for use in unicompartmental knee resurfacing procedures. Our future growth and success is dependent on the commercial introduction of version 2.0 of our TGS and a modular knee implant system, which would allow application of MAKOplasty to multicompartmental knee resurfacing procedures. We are in the early stages of development of these products and will need to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals which we may be unable to do on a timely basis, or at all. If we are unable to complete development of these products, obtain regulatory clearances or approvals or achieve commercial acceptance of MAKOplasty for multicompartmental knee resurfacing procedures, our revenue would be adversely affected and we would not become profitable. If our MAKOplasty solution does not gain market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to develop a sustainable, profitable business. Achieving patient, surgeon and hospital acceptance of MAKOplasty as the preferred method of treating early to mid-stage osteoarthritis of the knee is crucial to our success. We believe MAKOplasty represents a fundamentally new way of performing arthroplasty of the knee, employing computer-assisted robotic-arm technology and a patient-specific visualization system to resurface only the diseased areas of the knee joint. The orthopedic market has been traditionally slow to adopt new products and treatment practices. We believe that if surgeons and hospitals do not adopt the concept of computer-assisted robotics-enabled technology and do not perceive such technology as having significant advantages over conventional arthroplasty procedures, patients will be less likely to accept or be offered MAKOplasty and we will fail to meet our business objectives. Surgeons’ and hospitals’ perceptions of such technology having significant advantages are likely to be based on a determination that, among other factors, our products are safe, cost-effective and represent acceptable methods of treatment. Even if we can prove the clinical value of MAKOplasty through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. For example, surgeons may continue to recommend total knee replacement surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. 44 Table of Contents In addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products. Hospitals may not accept MAKOplasty because the TGS is a piece of capital equipment, representing a significant portion of a hospital’s budget. Our TGS may not be cost-efficient if hospitals are not able to perform a significant volume of MAKOplasty procedures. If MAKOplasty fails to achieve market acceptance for any of these or other reasons, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to develop a sustainable, profitable business. We have only limited clinical data to support the value of MAKOplasty, which may make patients, surgeons and hospitals reluctant to purchase our products. We believe that patients, surgeons and hospitals will only accept MAKOplasty or purchase our products if they believe that MAKOplasty is a safe and effective procedure with advantages over competing products and conventional procedures. To date, we have collected only limited, short-term clinical data with which to assess MAKOplasty’s clinical value. As of December 31, 2007, 181 MAKOplasty procedures had been performed since commercial introduction in 2006. Two additional procedures were intended as MAKOplasty procedures, but in each case, the procedure concluded as total knee replacements when our TGS failed to perform as intended or was improperly operated during surgery. We reported both of these incidents to the FDA pursuant to medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations. In January 2008, we reported a third incident in which a patient suffered a post-operative bone fracture at the insertion site of the bone pins. In February 2008, we reported a fourth incident in which a bone pin broke off below the bone surface of the tibia during a procedure. See “Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance.” We have not collected, and are not aware that others have collected, any long-term clinical data regarding the clinical value of MAKOplasty. The results of short-term studies, such as our post-market study, do not necessarily predict long-term clinical results. If longer-term or more extensive clinical studies that may be performed by us or others indicate that MAKOplasty is a less safe or less effective procedure than our current data suggest, patients may choose not to undergo, and surgeons may choose not to, perform MAKOplasty. Furthermore, unsatisfactory patient outcomes or patient injury could cause negative publicity for our products, particularly in the early phases of product introduction. The FDA could also rescind our marketing clearances if future results and experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects. See “Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance.” Surgeons may be slow to adopt our products if they perceive liability risks arising from the use of these new products. As a result, patients, surgeons and hospitals may not accept MAKOplasty or our products and we may fail to become profitable and may be subject to significant legal liability. We have limited sales and marketing experience and capabilities, which could impair our ability to achieve profitability. We have limited experience as a company in the sales and marketing of our products. We may not be successful in marketing and selling our products in the U.S. through our direct sales force with assistance from independent orthopedic product agents and distributors. Our sales and marketing organization is supported by clinical and technical representatives who provide training, clinical and technical support and other services to our customers before and during the surgery. To reach our revenue targets, we need to expand and strengthen our U.S. direct sales force. 45 Table of Contents Developing a sales and marketing organization is expensive and time consuming and an inability to develop such an organization in a timely manner could delay the successful adoption of our products. Additionally, any sales and marketing organization that we develop may be competing against the experienced and well-funded sales and marketing organizations of some of our competitors. We will face significant challenges and risks in developing our sales and marketing organization, including, among others: • our ability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of qualified sales and marketing personnel; • the ability of sales personnel to obtain access to leading surgeons and persuade adequate numbers of hospitals to purchase our products; • costs associated with hiring, maintaining and expanding a sales and marketing organization; and • government scrutiny with respect to promotional activities in the healthcare industry. If we are unable to develop and maintain these sales and marketing capabilities, we may be unable to generate revenue and may not become profitable. Surgeons, hospitals and orthopedic product agents and distributors may have existing relationships with other medical device companies that make it difficult for us to establish new relationships with them, and as a result, we may not be able to sell and market our products effectively. We believe that to sell and market our products effectively, we must establish relationships with key surgeons and hospitals in the field of orthopedic knee surgery. Many of these key surgeons and hospitals already have long-standing relationships with large, better-known companies that dominate the medical devices industry through collaborative research programs and other relationships. Because of these existing relationships, some of which may be contractually enforced, surgeons and hospitals may be reluctant to adopt MAKOplasty, particularly if MAKOplasty competes with or has the potential to compete with products supported through their own collaborative research program or by these existing relationships. Even if these surgeons and hospitals purchase our TGS, they may be unwilling to enter into collaborative relationships with us to promote joint marketing programs such as the MAKOplasty Knee Center of Excellence or to provide us with clinical and financial data. In addition to our direct sales force, we work with a network of independent orthopedic product agents and distributors that primarily generate sales leads for us. If these product agents and distributors believe that their relationship with us is less beneficial than other relationships they may have with more established or well-known medical device companies, they may be unwilling to continue their relationships with us, making it more difficult for us to sell and market our products effectively. 46 Table of Contents Because the markets for our products are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors’ products, resulting in reduced revenue and harm to our financial results. MAKOplasty requires the use of new robotics technology, and we face competition from large, well-known companies, principally Zimmer Holdings, Inc., DePuy Orthopedics, Inc., a Johnson & Johnson company, Stryker Corporation, and Biomet, Inc., that dominate the market for orthopedic products. Each of these companies, as well as other companies like Smith & Nephew, Inc., which introduced the Journey Deuce Bi-Compartmental Knee System in July 2007, offers conventional instruments and implants for use in conventional total and partial knee replacement surgeries as well as unicompartmental resurfacing procedures, which may compete with our MAKOplasty solution and negatively impact sales of our TGS. A number of these and other companies also offer CAS systems for use in arthroplasty procedures that provide a minimally invasive means of viewing the anatomical site. Currently, we are not aware of any well-known orthopedic company that broadly offers robotics technology in combination with computer assisted surgery. All of these companies, however, have the ability to acquire and develop robotics technology that may compete with our TGS. We are aware of certain early stage companies developing CAS and robotic applications in orthopedics and others commercializing customized implants and instruments for early- and mid-stage arthroplasty solutions. In addition, Biomet has a license from Z-KAT to intellectual property rights in computer assisted surgery, or CAS intellectual property, for use in the field of orthopedics. The license is non-exclusive with respect to use of CAS intellectual property in combination with robotics technology and exclusive with respect to all other uses within the field of orthopedics, which could enable them to compete with us. We also may face competition from other medical device companies that may seek to extend robotics technology and minimally invasive approaches and products that they have developed for use in other parts of the human anatomy to minimally invasive arthroplasty of the knee. Even if these other companies currently do not have an established presence in the field of minimally invasive surgery for the knee, they may attempt to apply their robotics technology to the field of knee replacement and resurfacing procedures to compete directly with us. Many of these medical device competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, including: • significantly greater name recognition; • longer operating histories; • established exclusive relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; • established distribution networks; 47 Table of Contents • additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory clearance for products and marketing approved products; and • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation. Moreover, our competitors in the medical device industry make significant investments in research and development, and innovation is rapid and continuous. If new products or technologies emerge that provide the same or superior benefits as our products at equal or lesser cost, they could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. Because our products can have long development and regulatory clearance or approval cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. In addition, we face increasing competition from well-financed orthopedic companies in our attempts to acquire such new technologies, products and businesses. As a result, we cannot be certain that surgeons will use our products to replace or supplement established surgical procedures or that our products will be competitive with current or future products and technologies resulting in reduced revenue and harm to our financial results. If we do not timely achieve our development goals for new versions of our TGS or our implants, the commercialization of these products will be delayed and our business and financial results may be adversely affected. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to develop new products, to introduce enhancements to our existing products and to develop these new products and enhancements within targeted time frames and budgets. We may not be successful in our research and development efforts for version 2.0 of our TGS and a modular knee implant system, for which we are targeting commercial introduction in the first half of 2009, subject to regulatory clearances. The actual timing of these product releases can vary dramatically compared to our estimates for reasons that may or may not be within our control, including clearance or approval to market these products by the FDA. Customers may forego purchases of our existing products and purchase our competitors’ products as a result of delays in the introduction of our new products and enhancements or failure by us to offer innovative products or enhancements at competitive prices and in a timely manner. Announcements of new products by us or by competitors may also result in a delay in or cancellation of purchasing decisions in anticipation of such new products. Any such losses of new customers would harm our business and financial results. In addition, most customers who purchase our TGS are entitled by contract to receive version 2.0 of our TGS and all interim software and hardware version enhancements at no additional cost. Until we deliver version 2.0 of our TGS to the customer, we are required to defer all revenue associated with the sale of the TGS. Any delay in or failure to deliver version 2.0 of our TGS to our existing customers could result in the loss of such accounts and a delay or inability to recognize revenue associated with the initial sale of the TGS to the customer. 48 Table of Contents If we fail to develop, acquire or secure a customized bone cutting instrument, we may not be able to develop future iterations of version 2.0 of our TGS, and as a result, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. A key element of our TGS is the bone cutting instrument that attaches to the end of the robotic arm. The current version of the bone cutting instrument is supplied by a third-party manufacturer that supplies substantially the same instrument to other customers for use in other parts of the anatomy. We believe that to successfully develop and market version 2.0 of our TGS for use in multicompartmental resurfacing procedures, we must develop, acquire or secure a supplier for a customized bone cutting instrument that provides greater durability and is custom-fit for use with version 2.0 of our TGS in multicompartmental resurfacing procedures. Alternatively, we may need to collaborate or enter into partnerships with strategic partners to provide us with such technology. We cannot assure you that we would be able to develop, acquire or secure a supplier for a customized bone cutting instrument or enter into collaborations or partnerships on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If we are not able to do so, we may not be able to develop and commercialize version 2.0 of our TGS and our business and financial results will be adversely affected. We may not have sufficient funding to complete the development and commercialization of our existing products. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since our inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts of cash on expansion of our sales and marketing organization, research and development, and commercialization of our products. We believe that the net proceeds from our IPO that closed in February 2008, together with our future sales, existing cash and cash equivalent balances and interest we earn on these balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for approximately the next 16-18 months. However, actual capital requirements may change and will depend on many factors, including: • the success of our research and product development efforts; • the expenses we incur in selling and marketing our products; • the costs and timing of regulatory clearances for upgrades or changes to our products; • the cash generated by sales of our products; • the emergence of competing or complementary technological developments; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, or participating in litigation-related activities; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing or other arrangements that we may establish; and • the acquisition of businesses, products and technologies. 49 Table of Contents Any additional financing may be dilutive to stockholders or may require us to grant a lender a security interest in our assets. If adequate funds are not available to us, we may have to delay or abandon development or commercialization of some of our products. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products. Any of these factors could harm our business and financial results. Our reliance on third-party suppliers, including single source suppliers, for our implants and nearly all components of our TGS could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely and cost effective manner. We rely on third-party suppliers to manufacture and supply our implants and nearly all components used in our TGS, other than software. We currently rely on a number of sole source suppliers, such as Stelkast (a business division of Trigon Incorporated), for our inlay knee implant system, Encore Medical, L.P., for our onlay knee implant system and The Anspach Effort, Inc., for our bone cutting instrument. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers, other than with Encore. We have long-term design and licensing agreements, however, with Stelkast and Encore that provide us with certain rights to the design and manufacture of the implants, and a long-term agreement with Symmetry Medical, Inc., which contemplates the manufacture, label and packaging of knee implant systems and related instrumentation and the potential development of new implant and instrument designs in the future. Because we do not have long-term contracts, our suppliers generally are not required to provide us with any guaranteed minimum production levels. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of key components in the future. In addition, our reliance on third-party suppliers involves a number of risks, including, among other things: • suppliers may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipments of our products; • we or our suppliers may not be able to respond to unanticipated changes in customer orders, and if orders do not match forecasts, we or our suppliers may have excess or inadequate inventory of materials and components; • we may be subject to price fluctuations due to a lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components; • we may experience delays in delivery by our suppliers due to changes in demand from us or their other customers; • we or our suppliers may lose access to critical services and components, resulting in an interruption in the manufacture, assembly and shipment of our systems; • fluctuations in demand for products that our suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability or willingness to deliver components to us in a timely manner; 50 Table of Contents • our suppliers may wish to discontinue supplying components or services to us for risk management reasons; • we may not be able to find new or alternative components or reconfigure our system and manufacturing processes in a timely manner if the necessary components become unavailable; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. If any of these risks materialize, it could significantly increase our costs and impact our ability to meet demand for our products. If we are unable to satisfy commercial demand for our TGS or implants in a timely manner, our ability to generate revenue would be impaired, market acceptance of our products could be adversely affected, and customers may instead purchase or use our competitors’ products. In addition, we could be forced to secure new or alternative components through a replacement supplier. Securing a replacement supplier could be difficult, especially for complex components such as motors, encoders, brakes and certain TGS components that are manufactured in accordance with our custom specifications. The introduction of new or alternative components may require design changes to our system that are subject to FDA and other regulatory clearances or approvals. We may also be required to assess the new manufacturer’s compliance with all applicable regulations and guidelines, which could further impede our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner. As a result, we could incur increased production costs, experience delays in deliveries of our products, suffer damage to our reputation and experience an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We have limited experience in assembling and testing our products and may encounter problems or delays in the assembly of our products or fail to meet certain regulatory requirements that could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We have limited experience in assembling and testing our products, including the current version of our TGS, and no experience in doing so on a commercial scale. The current version of our TGS is complex and requires the integration of a number of separate components and processes. Version 2.0 of our TGS, if developed in the future as currently planned, is likely to be even more complex. To become profitable, we must assemble and test the TGS in commercial quantities in compliance with regulatory requirements and at an acceptable cost. Increasing our capacity to assemble and test our products on a commercial scale will require us to improve internal efficiencies. We may encounter a number of difficulties in increasing our assembly and testing capacity, including: • managing production yields; • maintaining quality control and assurance; • providing component and service availability; 51 Table of Contents • maintaining adequate control policies and procedures; • hiring and retaining qualified personnel; and • complying with state, federal and foreign regulations. If we are unable to satisfy commercial demand for our TGS due to our inability to assemble and test our TGS, our business and financial results, including our ability to generate revenue, would be impaired, market acceptance of our products could be materially adversely affected and customers may instead purchase or use, our competitors’ products. Any failure in our efforts to train surgeons or hospital staff could result in lower than expected product sales and potential liabilities. A critical component of our sales and marketing efforts is the training of a sufficient number of surgeons and hospital staff to properly use our TGS. We rely on surgeons and hospital staff to devote adequate time to learn to use our products. Convincing surgeons and hospital staff to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training in the use of our system is challenging, and we cannot assure you we will be successful in these efforts. If surgeons or hospital staff are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. If nurses or other members of the hospital staff are not adequately trained to assist in using our TGS, surgeons may be unable to use our products. Insufficient training may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury and related liability or negative publicity, which could have an adverse effect on our product sales or create substantial potential liabilities. We will likely experience extended and variable sales cycles, which together with the unit price of the TGS and our revenue recognition policies, could cause significant variability in our results of operations for any given quarter. Our TGS will likely have a lengthy sales cycle because it involves a major piece of capital equipment, the purchase of which will generally require the approval of senior management at hospitals, inclusion in the hospitals’ budget process for capital expenditures and, in some instances, a certificate of need from the state or other regulatory clearance. As a result, we expect that a relatively small number of units will be installed each quarter. Based on our limited experience, we estimate that this sales cycle may take between seven and twelve months from the point of initial identification and contact with a qualified surgeon until closing of the purchase with the hospital. Sales of TGS units may also be subject to a customer acceptance period, during which the customer may return the TGS unit to us subject to a penalty. Although we believe that training can be accomplished in a relatively short period of time, there may be situations where training of physicians and staff may last an additional month or more after installation. In addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle as customers take additional time to assess the capital products. Because of the lengthy sales cycle, the unit price of the TGS and the relatively small number of units installed each quarter, each installation of a TGS can represent a significant component of our revenue for a particular quarter, particularly in the near term and during any other periods in which our sales volume is relatively low. 52 Table of Contents Moreover, we are required to defer revenue associated with our TGS until we have fulfilled our contractual obligation to deliver version 2.0 of our TGS to our customers. The deferral of revenue will result in even greater fluctuations in our reporting of quarterly revenue. As a result, in future quarters our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which event our stock price would likely decrease. These fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. Other factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our operating results may include: • timing and level of expenditures associated with new product development activities; • delays in shipment due, for example, to cancellations by customers, natural disasters or labor disturbances; • delays or unexpected difficulties in the manufacturing processes of our suppliers or in our assembly process; • timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product upgrades by us and by our competitors; • timing and level of expenditures associated with expansion of sales and marketing activities and our overall operations; • disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; and • changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement, changes in government regulation, or a change in a customer’s financial condition or ability to obtain financing. These factors are difficult to forecast and may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly revenue and substantial variation from our projections, particularly during the periods in which our sales volume is low. Moreover, many of our expenses, such as office leases and certain personnel costs, are relatively fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Based on the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. These and other potential fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. 53 Table of Contents If we receive a significant number of warranty claims or our TGS units require significant amounts of service after sale, our costs will increase and our business and financial results will be adversely affected. We currently warrant each TGS against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of approximately 12 months from the installation of our product by a customer. We also expect to provide technical and other services to customers beyond the warranty period pursuant to a supplemental service plan that we sell for our TGS. We have a limited history of commercial placements from which to judge our rate of warranty claims. If product returns or warranty claims are significant or exceed our expectations, we could incur unanticipated reductions in sales or additional expenditures for parts and service. In addition, our reputation could be damaged and our products may not achieve market acceptance. While we have established accruals for liability associated with product warranties, unforeseen warranty exposure in excess of those accruals could negatively impact our business and financial results. We could become subject to product liability claims, product recalls and other field or regulatory actions that could be expensive, divert management’s attention and harm our business. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks, product recalls and other field or regulatory actions that are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical device products. We may be held liable if our TGS or implants cause injury or death or is found otherwise unsuitable or defective during usage. Our TGS incorporates mechanical, electrical and optical parts, complex computer software and other sophisticated components, any of which can contain errors or failures. Complex computer software is particularly vulnerable to errors and failures, especially when first introduced. In addition, new products or enhancements to our existing products may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after installation. If any of our products are defective, whether due to design or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons, we may be required to notify regulatory authorities and, in some circumstances, to recall the product at our expense. In particular, we are required to submit an MDR report to the FDA for any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. In 2007, we submitted MDRs to the FDA reporting two procedures that were intended as MAKOplasty procedures, but concluded as total knee replacements when a component of our TGS failed to perform as intended or was improperly operated during surgery. In January 2008, we reported a third incident in which a patient suffered a post-operative bone fracture at the insertion site of the bone pins. In February 2008, we reported a fourth incident in which a bone pin broke off below the bone surface of the tibia during a procedure. 54 Table of Contents In the future, we may experience additional events that may require reporting to the FDA pursuant to the MDR regulations. See “Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance.” A required notification to a regulatory authority could result in an investigation by regulatory authorities of our products, which could in turn result in product recalls, restrictions on the sale of the products, civil or criminal penalties and other field corrective action. In addition, because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, defects could result in a number of complications, some of which could be serious and could harm or kill patients. The adverse publicity resulting from any of these events could cause surgeons or hospitals to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. Regulatory investigations or product recalls could also result in our incurring substantial costs, losing revenue, and implementing a change in the design, manufacturing process or the indications for which our products may be used, each of which would harm our business. It is also possible that defects in the design, manufacture or labeling of our products could result in a product liability claim. The medical device industry has historically been subject to extensive litigation over product liability claims. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage is subject to deductibles and limitations, and may not be adequate to cover future claims. Additionally, we may be unable to maintain our existing product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or adequate amounts. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome could result in: • decreased demand for our products; • injury to our reputation; • diversion of management’s attention; • significant costs of related litigation; • payment of substantial monetary awards by us; • product recalls or market withdrawals; • a change in the design, manufacturing process or the indications for which our products may be used; • loss of revenue; and • an inability to commercialize our products under development. If hospitals, surgeons and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain coverage or reimbursement from third-party payors for MAKOplasty procedures, hospitals may not purchase our TGS and surgeons may not perform MAKOplasty, which would harm our business and financial results. Our ability to successfully commercialize MAKOplasty depends significantly on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, including governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid as well as private insurance and private health plans. Reimbursement is a significant factor considered by hospitals in determining whether to acquire new capital equipment such as our technology. Although our customers have been successful in obtaining coverage and reimbursement, we cannot assure you that procedures using our technology will be covered or reimbursed by third-party payors in the future. 55 Table of Contents We anticipate that in the U.S. our products will be purchased primarily by hospitals, which bill various third-party payors, including governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare, and private insurance plans for procedures using our technology. Ensuring adequate Medicare reimbursement can be a lengthy and expensive endeavor and we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful. In addition, the U.S. Congress may pass laws that impact coverage and reimbursement for healthcare services, including Medicare reimbursement to physicians and hospitals. Many private payors look to Medicare’s coverage and reimbursement policies in setting their coverage policies and reimbursement amounts. If the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare program, or Medicare contractors limit payments to hospitals or surgeons for MAKOplasty procedures, private payors may similarly limit payments. In addition, state legislatures may enact laws limiting or otherwise affecting the level of Medicaid reimbursements. As a result, hospitals may not purchase our TGS and surgeons may choose not to perform MAKOplasty, and, as a result, our business and financial results would be adversely affected. Medicare pays acute care hospitals a prospectively determined amount for inpatient operating costs under the Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system, or PPS. Under the Medicare hospital inpatient PPS, the prospective payment for a patient’s stay in an acute care hospital is determined by the patient’s condition and other patient data and procedures performed during the inpatient stay using a classification system known as diagnosis-related groups, or DRGs. As of October 1, 2007, CMS, implemented a revised version of the DRG system that uses 745 Medicare Severity DRGs, or MS-DRGs, instead of the approximately 540 DRGs Medicare previously used. The MS-DRGs are intended to account more accurately for the patient’s severity of illness when assigning each patient’s stay to a payment classification. Medicare pays a fixed amount to the hospital based on the MS-DRG into which the patient’s stay is assigned, regardless of the actual cost to the hospital of furnishing the procedures, items and services provided. Accordingly, acute care hospitals generally do not receive direct Medicare reimbursement under PPS for the specific costs incurred in purchasing medical devices. Rather, reimbursement for these costs is deemed to be included within the MS-DRG-based payments made to hospitals for the services furnished to Medicare-eligible inpatients in which the devices are utilized. Accordingly, a hospital must absorb the cost of our products as part of the payment it receives for the procedure in which the device is used. In addition, physicians that perform procedures in hospitals are paid a set amount by Medicare for performing such services under the Medicare physician fee schedule. Medicare payment rates for both systems are established annually. 56 Table of Contents At this time, we do not know the extent to which hospitals and physicians would consider third-party reimbursement levels adequate to cover the cost of our products. Failure by hospitals and surgeons to receive an amount that they consider to be adequate reimbursement for procedures in which our products are used could deter them from purchasing or using our products and limit our sales growth. In addition, pre-determined MS-DRG payments or Medicare physician fee schedule payments may decline over time, which could deter hospitals from purchasing our products or physicians from using them. If hospitals are unable to justify the costs of our products or physicians are not adequately compensated for procedures in which our products are utilized, they may refuse to purchase or use them, which would significantly harm our business. Notwithstanding current or future FDA clearances, if granted, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if the payor determines that a therapeutic medical device is unnecessary, inappropriate, not cost-effective or experimental, or is used for a non-approved indication. Although we are not aware of any potential customer that has declined to purchase our TGS based upon third-party payors’ reimbursement policies, cost control measures adopted by third-party payors may have a significant effect on surgeries performed using MAKOplasty or as to the levels of reimbursement. All third-party payors, whether governmental or private, whether inside the U.S. or outside, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. These cost control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, benefit redesigns, pre-authorization or second opinion requirements prior to major surgery, an emphasis on wellness and healthier lifestyle interventions and an exploration of other cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These cost control methods also potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for medical technology which could, as a result, adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, in the U.S., no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payors. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for medical technology can differ significantly from payor to payor. There also can be no assurance that current levels of reimbursement will not be decreased or eliminated in the future, or that future legislation, regulation, or reimbursement policies of third-party payors will not otherwise adversely affect the demand for our products or our ability to sell products on a profitable basis. Our customers are currently using existing reimbursement codes for knee arthroplasty. Knee arthroplasty performed in the hospital inpatient setting is currently assigned to MS-DRG 469 (“Major Joint Replacement or Reattachment of Lower Extremity with Major Complication or Comorbidity”) and MS-DRG 470 (“Major Joint Replacement or Reattachment of Lower Extremity without Major Complication of Comorbidity”), and surgeons currently bill Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, code 27446 (“Arthroplasty, knee, condyle and plateau; medial OR lateral compartment”) for services performed in connection with procedures using our technology. If unicompartmental and multicompartmental knee resurfacing procedures gain market acceptance and the number of such procedures increases, CMS and other payors may establish billing codes for unicompartmental and multicompartmental knee resurfacing procedures that provide for a smaller reimbursement amount than knee arthroplasty, which could adversely affect our financial results and business. 57 Table of Contents In international markets, market acceptance of our products will likely depend in large part on the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region in some countries, and include both government- sponsored healthcare and private insurance. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, even if we do obtain international reimbursement approvals, the level of reimbursement may not be enough to commercially justify expansion of our business into the approving jurisdiction. To the extent we or our customers are unable to obtain coverage or reimbursement for procedures using our technology in major international markets in which we seek to market and sell our technology, our international revenue growth would be harmed, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may attempt to acquire new products or technologies, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefits or harm our existing business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our operations, and the process of integration could be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, which could harm our existing business. In addition, future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and materially adversely affect our financial results or cause a reduction in the price of our common stock. We depend on key employees, and if we fail to attract and retain employees with the expertise required for our business, we cannot grow or achieve profitability. We are highly dependent on members of our senior management and research and development staff, in particular Maurice R. Ferré, M.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Rony A. Abovitz, our Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to retain these key employees and to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel with expertise in research and development and sales and marketing. Competition for qualified personnel in the medical device industry is intense, and finding and retaining qualified personnel with experience in our industry is very difficult. We believe that there are only a limited number of individuals with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions, and we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. It is increasingly difficult to hire and retain these persons, and we may be unable to replace key persons if they leave or fill new positions requiring key persons with appropriate experience. A significant portion of our compensation to our key employees is in the form of stock option grants. A prolonged depression in our stock price could make it difficult for us to retain our employees and recruit additional qualified personnel. 58 Table of Contents We do not maintain, and do not currently intend to obtain, key employee life insurance on any of our personnel other than Dr. Ferré. Although we have obtained key-man insurance covering Dr. Ferré in the amount of $2,000,000, this would not fully compensate us for the loss of Dr. Ferré’s services. Dr Ferré may terminate his employment at will at any time with 30 days notice or immediately upon the occurrence of certain events. Each of our other officers and key employees may terminate his or her employment at will at any time with 60 days notice or immediately upon the occurrence of certain events. The loss of key employees, the failure of any key employee to perform or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, as needed, could harm our business. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products. Our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the anticipated growth of our business. We have experienced significant growth in the scope of our operations and the number of our employees since our inception. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operations resources. In order to achieve our business objectives, we must continue to grow. However, continued growth presents numerous challenges, including: • implementing appropriate operational and financial systems and controls; • expanding manufacturing and assembly capacity and increasing production; • developing our sales and marketing infrastructure and capabilities; • improving our information systems; • identifying, attracting and retaining qualified personnel in our areas of activity; and • hiring, training, managing and supervising our personnel. We cannot be certain that our systems, controls, infrastructure and personnel will be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to effectively manage our growth could impede our ability to successfully develop, market and sell our products and our business will be harmed. 59 Table of Contents If we decide to market and sell MAKOplasty internationally, we would be subject to various risks relating to our international activities, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Although currently we do not actively market or sell our products abroad, we may actively pursue such markets in the future. If we were to conduct business outside the U.S., we would be exposed to risks separate and distinct from those we face in our U.S. operations. Our international business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions in foreign countries. In addition, because international sales would most likely be denominated in the functional currency of the country where the product is being shipped, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could affect our results of operations. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: • export restrictions and controls and other government regulation relating to technology; • the availability and level of reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems; • pricing pressures that we may experience internationally; • compliance with existing and changing foreign regulatory laws and requirements; • foreign laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; • shipping delays; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights. Our exposure to each of these risks may increase our costs, impair our ability to market and sell our products and require significant management attention, resulting in harm to our business and financial results. 60 Table of Contents Our operations are currently conducted primarily at a single location in Florida, which may be at risk from hurricanes, storm, fire, terror attacks or other disasters. We currently conduct all of our management activities, most of our research and development activities and assemble all of our products at a single location in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. We have taken various precautions to safeguard our facilities, such as obtaining insurance, establishing health and safety protocols and securing off-site storage of computer data. However, a casualty due to a hurricane, storm or other natural disasters, a fire, terrorist attack, or other unanticipated problems at this location could cause substantial delays in our operations, delay or prevent assembly of our TGS units and shipment of our implants, damage or destroy our equipment and inventory, and cause us to incur substantial expenses. Our insurance does not cover losses caused by certain events such as floods or other activities and may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Any damage, loss or delay could seriously harm our business and have an adverse affect on our financial results. Certain of our directors, executive officers and key employees have an interest in Z-KAT that could pose potential conflicts of interest, which could harm our business. Certain of our directors, executive officers and key employees hold, in the aggregate, approximately 17% of the equity interests in Z-KAT. We are heavily dependent on intellectual property that we license or sublicense from Z-KAT and have entered into various licensing and related arrangements with Z-KAT. Each of these individuals may face potential conflicts of interest regarding these licensing transactions as a result of their interests in Z-KAT. Dr. Ferré may face additional conflicts of interest regarding these licensing and related arrangements if he serves on the board of directors of Z-KAT. We do not have existing arrangements to address these potential conflicts of interest, cannot assure you that any conflicts will be resolved in our favor, and as a result, our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we, or the third parties from whom we license intellectual property, are unable to secure and maintain patent or other intellectual property protection for the intellectual property contained in our products, our ability to compete will be harmed. Our commercial success depends, in part, on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products. The patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. Our patent position is uncertain and complex, in part, because of our dependence on intellectual property that we license from others. If we, or the third parties from whom we license intellectual property, fail to obtain adequate patent or other intellectual property protection for intellectual property contained in our products, or if any protection is reduced or eliminated, others could use the intellectual property contained in our products, resulting in harm to our competitive business position. In addition, patent and other intellectual property protection may not provide us with a competitive advantage against competitors that devise ways of making competitive products without infringing any patents that we own or have rights to. As of January 1, 2008, our portfolio includes 19 wholly-owned pending U.S. patent applications, 21 pending foreign applications and other intellectual property that is wholly-owned by us. As of January 1, 2008, we had licensed rights to 118 U.S. and 47 foreign third-party granted patents, and we had licensed rights to 22 U.S. and 40 foreign third-party pending patent applications. U.S. patents and patent applications may be subject to interference proceedings and U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices. 61 Table of Contents Any of these proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws may also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our protection. Interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly and time-consuming, and we, or the third parties from whom we license intellectual property, may be unsuccessful in defending against such proceedings. Thus, any patents that we own or license may provide limited or no protection against competitors. In addition, our pending patent applications and those we may file in the future may have claims narrowed during prosecution or may not result in patents being issued. Even if any of our pending or future applications are issued, they may not provide us with adequate protection or any competitive advantages. Our ability to develop additional patentable technology is also uncertain. Non-payment or delay in payment of patent fees or annuities, whether intentional or unintentional, may also result in the loss of patents or patent rights important to our business. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., particularly in the field of medical products and procedures. If we are unable to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how, our ability to compete will be harmed. Proprietary trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and unpatented know-how are also very important to our business. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, confidentiality agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect certain aspects of our technology, especially where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. We require our employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment or consulting relationships with us. We also require our employees and consultants to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived during the term of their employment or engagement while using our property or which relate to our business. However, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard our proprietary intellectual property. Our employees, consultants, contractors, outside clinical collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors. In addition, confidentiality agreements may be unenforceable or may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to copy or reverse engineer certain aspects of our products that we consider proprietary. As a result, third parties may be able to use our proprietary technology or information, and our ability to compete in the market would be harmed. 62 Table of Contents We could become subject to patent and other intellectual property litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of management’s attention, require us to pay damages and force us to discontinue selling our products. The medical device industry is characterized by competing intellectual property and a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, the fields of orthopedic implants, CAS, haptics and robotics are well established and crowded with the intellectual property of competitors and others. A number of companies in our market, as well as universities and research institutions, have issued patents and have filed patent applications which relate to the use of CAS. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of a patent litigation action is often uncertain. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents issued to third parties, and no assurance can be given that third-party patents containing claims covering our products, parts of our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas, our competitors or other third parties, including third parties from whom we license intellectual property, may assert that our products and the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue and because publication schedules for pending applications vary by jurisdiction, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and which may result in issued patents which our current or future products infringe. Also, because the claims of published patent applications can change between publication and patent grant, there may be published patent applications that may ultimately issue with claims that we infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more of our products or parts may infringe and of which we are unaware. As the number of competitors in the market for CAS and robotics assisted knee implant systems grows, and as the number of patents issued in this area grows, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us increases. In certain situations, we or third parties, such as Z-KAT from whom we license intellectual property may determine that it is in our best interests or their best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or other proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. Pursuant to our licensing arrangement with Z-KAT, we have the right to prosecute, control and maintain all Z-KAT patents and intellectual property rights that are licensed to us within the field of orthopedic surgery. Z-KAT retains the right to prosecute, control and maintain its patent and intellectual property rights outside the field of orthopedic surgery, subject to certain conditions. For example, Z-KAT must notify us prior to taking any action to enforce their patent or intellectual property rights. To help ensure that Z-KAT has the resources necessary for proper prosecution and defense of any litigation arising from such enforcement action, our agreement with Z-KAT also requires that it enter into an engagement letter with competent counsel and deposit funds into an escrow account, for use by us to take over the litigation or action in the event Z-KAT is unable or unwilling to conduct proper prosecution and defense of such litigation or action. Despite these arrangements, we may have no control over Z-KAT’s decisions regarding enforcement actions outside the field of orthopedic surgery. As a result, we may become involved in unwanted litigation that could be costly, result in diversion of management’s attention, require us to pay damages and force us to discontinue selling our products. 63 Table of Contents On November 26, 2007, we received a letter from counsel to SensAble Technologies, Inc. alleging that we infringed certain of its patents and breached a confidentiality provision in the Sublicense Agreement, dated May 24, 2006, pursuant to which we license certain patents from SensAble. In the letter, SensAble alleged, among other things, that we exceeded the scope of our licensed field of computer-assisted surgery by using the technology for, among other things, pre-operative planning and post-operative follow-up. SensAble also alleged that we infringed one or more claims in five U.S. patents that are not among the patents licensed to us pursuant to the Sublicense Agreement. Although SensAble has not commenced any legal action against us as of the date of this report, it may do so in the future and at this time we cannot determine the ultimate outcome of any such legal action. Any such legal action could result in our inability to manufacture and sell our TGS, as currently sold, which could have a material adverse effect on our company. See also Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 6 to the Financial Statements. Infringement actions and other intellectual property claims and proceedings, whether with or without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our business and harm our reputation. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent or intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. We cannot be certain that we will successfully defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents and intellectual property rights. In the event that we become subject to a patent infringement or other intellectual property lawsuit and if the other party’s patents or other intellectual property were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe the other party’s patents or violate the terms of a license to which we are a party, we could be required to pay damages. We could also be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license to use technology or processes covered by such patents or were able to redesign the product to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on commercially reasonable terms or we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Modification of our products or development of new products could require us to conduct clinical trials and to revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time-consuming and expensive. In these circumstances, we may be unable to sell our products at competitive prices or at all, our business and operating results could be harmed and our stock price may decline. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. 64 Table of Contents We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We could in the future be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our products and processes, if such technologies or features are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain potential products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance If we fail to comply with the extensive government regulations relating to our business, we may be subject to fines, injunctions and other penalties that could harm our business. Our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and various other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Government regulations and foreign requirements specific to medical devices are wide ranging and govern, among other things: • design, development and manufacturing; • testing, labeling and storage; • clinical trials; • product safety; • marketing, sales and distribution; • premarket clearance or approval; • record keeping procedures; • advertising and promotions; • recalls and field corrective actions; 65 Table of Contents • post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; and • product export. In the U.S., before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we must first receive either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA, or approval of a PMA from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The PMA approval pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on data obtained in clinical trials. Both of these processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees, unless exempt. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to 12 months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. It generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the PMA application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain FDA clearance or approval for any of our new products on a timely basis, or at all. The FDA, state, foreign and other governmental authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in governmental agencies or a court taking action, including any of the following sanctions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals of new products or modified products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted; • refusal to grant export approval for our products; or • criminal prosecution. 66 Table of Contents Failure to obtain regulatory approval in additional foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from expanding the commercialization of our products abroad. Currently, our primary market is the U.S. market for knee resurfacing procedures. We are, however, exploring international markets on a limited basis and may expand our overseas sales and marketing efforts in the future. If we were to expand our sales and marketing efforts to foreign jurisdictions, we would have to obtain separate regulatory approvals from those foreign jurisdictions. The approval procedure varies among jurisdictions and can involve substantial additional testing. Approval or clearance by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign jurisdictions or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. In addition, the time required to obtain foreign approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval, and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any foreign market, which would harm our potential for future growth. If we or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted and our product sales and operating results could suffer. We and some of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. We and our manufacturers and suppliers are also subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process if we market our products overseas. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. To date, our facilities have not been subject to any inspections by regulatory authorities. We did pass a BSi certification audit of our Quality System to ISO 13485:2003 in preparation for CE marking. BSi will be doing surveillance audits once a year to make sure we continue to be in compliance. We anticipate that we and certain of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers will be subject to inspections by regulatory authorities in the future. If our facilities or those of our manufacturers or suppliers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals of new products or modified products; 67 Table of Contents • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted; • refusal to grant export approval for our products; or • criminal prosecution. Any of these sanctions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business operations and financial results. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design, or manufacture or labeling. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may initiate certain voluntary recalls involving our products in the future. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. If we determine that certain of those recalls do not require notification of the FDA, the FDA may disagree with our determinations and require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals of new products or modified products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted; • refusal to grant export approval for our products; or • criminal prosecution. 68 Table of Contents Any of these sanctions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. If our products, or malfunction of our products, cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. In addition, all manufacturers placing medical devices in European Union markets are legally bound to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the relevant authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. In 2007, we submitted MDRs to report two procedures that were intended as MAKOplasty procedures, but concluded as total knee replacements when a component of our TGS failed to perform as intended or was improperly operated during surgery. In January 2008, we reported a third incident in which a patient suffered a post-operative bone fracture at the insertion site of the bone pins. In February 2008, we reported a fourth incident in which a bone pin broke off below the bone surface of the tibia during a procedure. In the future, we may experience additional events that may require reporting to the FDA pursuant to the MDR regulations. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. In addition, failure to report such adverse events to appropriate government authorities on a timely basis, or at all, could result in an enforcement action against us. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses, resulting in damage to our reputation and business. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of a medical device for a use that has not been cleared or approved by FDA. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as “off-label” use. We believe that the specific surgical procedures for which our products are marketed fall within the scope of the surgical applications that have been cleared by the FDA. However, physicians may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. 69 Table of Contents It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients, and, in turn, the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. Federal regulatory reforms may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of a medical device. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Congress has recently enacted, and the President has signed into law, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or the Amendments. This law requires, among other things, that the FDA propose, and ultimately implement, regulations that will require manufacturers to label medical devices with unique identifiers unless a waiver is received from the FDA. Once implemented, compliance with those regulations may require us to take additional steps in the manufacture of our products and labeling. These steps may require additional resources and could be costly. In addition, the Amendments will require us to, among other things, pay annual establishment registration fees to the FDA for each of our FDA registered facilities. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. While we do not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, many healthcare laws and regulations apply to our business. For example, we could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The healthcare laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal healthcare programs’ Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons or entities from soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in return for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase order or recommendation of, any item or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; 70 Table of Contents • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services not provided as claimed, and which may apply to entities like us to the extent that our interactions with customers may affect their billing or coding practices; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which established new federal crimes for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services, as well as leading to regulations imposing certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. The orthopedic medical device industry is, and in recent years has been, under heightened scrutiny as the subject of government investigations and enforcement actions involving manufacturers who allegedly offered unlawful inducements to potential or existing customers in an attempt to procure their business, including specifically arrangements with physician consultants. We have arrangements with surgeons, hospitals and other entities which may be subject to scrutiny. For example, we have consulting agreements with orthopedic surgeons using or considering the use of our TGS, knee implants and disposable products, for assistance in product development, and professional training and education, among other things. Payment for these consulting services sometimes is in the form of stock options or royalties rather than per hour or per diem amounts that would require verification of time worked. In addition, we sometimes allow hospitals a period of evaluation of our products at no charge. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, exclusions, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of these laws are broad and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. If the surgeons or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business. 71 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially, which could lead to losses for stockholders, possibly resulting in class action securities litigation. Prior to our IPO in February 2008, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. Since the IPO, our common stock has experienced low trading volumes. An active public trading market may not develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. The market price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: • the receipt, denial or timing of regulatory clearances or approvals of our products or competing products; • changes in policies affecting third-party coverage and reimbursement in the U.S. and other countries; • ability of our products, if they receive regulatory clearance, to achieve market success; • the performance of third-party contract manufacturers and component suppliers; • our ability to develop sales and marketing capabilities; • our ability to manufacture our products to commercial standards; • the success of any collaborations we may undertake with other companies; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements of new products, technological innovations or product advancements by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights; • sales of common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders in the future; 72 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • trading volume of our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, failure to obtain analyst coverage of our common stock or our failure to achieve analyst earnings estimates; • developments in our industry; and • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. In addition, the stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. We expect our stock price to be similarly volatile. These broad market fluctuations may continue and could harm our stock price. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Class action securities litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management resources, which could significantly harm our business. Securities analysts may issue negative reports, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. It may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to continue to attract securities analysts that will cover our common stock. If one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. Our principal stockholders, directors and executive officers own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders holding 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own or control approximately 47% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and principal stockholders, acting as a group, have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. 73 Table of Contents We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects, contractual arrangements, any limitations on payments of dividends present in any of our future debt agreements, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that they may occur, may depress the market price of our common stock. Of the approximately 18.5 million shares of our common stock currently outstanding, up to approximately 13.3 million shares held by existing holders prior to our IPO will generally become available for sale in the public market following expiration or termination of 180-day lock-up agreements or upon exercise by certain holders of available registration rights. For more information regarding registration rights of our stockholders, see Item 5, Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, “Registration Rights,” in this report. The lock-up agreements delivered by our executive officers, directors and substantially all of our stockholders and option holders in connection with our IPO provide that Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., on behalf of the underwriters, in their sole discretion, may release those parties, at any time or from time to time and without notice, from their obligation not to dispose of shares of common stock on or before August 12, 2008. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that substantial sales may be made, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, and we may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner or this internal control may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning in our second annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, as well as a statement that our auditors have issued a report on our internal control over financial reporting. 74 Table of Contents We are just beginning the costly and challenging process of compiling this documentation before we perform the testing and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control is effective unless remediation occurs and is satisfactorily tested prior to December 31, 2008. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Failure to comply with the new rules might make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage and/or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors, or as executive officers. In addition, as a public company, we will incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, and our administrative staff will be required to perform additional tasks. For example, we have increased the size of our accounting staff, updated our accounting systems and procedures, revised the roles and duties of our board committees, retained a transfer agent, adopted an insider trading policy and are bearing all of the internal and external costs of preparing and distributing periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the securities laws. In addition, we are in the process of adopting disclosure controls and procedures. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, and related regulations implemented by the SEC, and The NASDAQ Global Market, are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We are investing resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment will result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 75 Table of Contents 