D. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—If we are unable to prevent others from using our intellectual property or if we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims by others, our business may be materially and adversely affected.” Technology We provide end-to-end technology solutions to our customers providing online degree programs. Our technology consists of a series of systems and tools, including our Learning Management System, which enables the online universities to manage the entire student lifecycle from student application to graduation by providing system support to the student’s learning process and the university staff’s daily management process. We also provide a learning content creation and management system, which enables the team working on courseware development to bring the courseware from the concept and design stage to production and implementation, as well as manage courseware content, and various delivery and management systems and tools. In addition, in the past months we have been introducing more creative, front-end utilities to our customers, including real-time, virtual online classroom and mass-capacity flash-based course on-demand system to improve user experience in the online education scenario. Our strategy is to develop, integrate and deliver the most suitable, stable, efficient and cost-effective systems to our customers in the online education market in China. Our in-depth understanding of the online education market and the operational model of online education programs help us develop technology solutions suited to the needs of our current and future customers. Our accumulated experience and proprietary technology have further strengthened our leading position in the online education service market. 85 Table of Contents Our technology is based on the Microsoft platform for online degree, as well as other open source projects like computer algebra system (CAS), Sakai and LifeRay. Core supporting systems and training programs are implemented with Linux servers. Application software and databases are further supported by storage and back-up technologies. In addition to providing software solutions, along with maintenance support and customized development, we provide centralized system and network management services to our online degree program customers. Our production servers are hosted at a data center operated by China Telecom. In addition to the services provided by the data center (such as uninterrupted power supply), the servers are supported by advanced technologies to ensure security, scalability, reliability and expandability. Additionally, our bandwidth is scalable to accommodate spikes in user activity and content delivery network services by the top two providers are utilized to guarantee scalability and reliability. Using advanced technologies, our system can identify errors and isolate failed servers automatically to minimize the interruption of our customers’ access to our services. Our websites are hosted at a third-party facility in Beijing. This facility provides redundant utility systems, a back-up electric generator and 24-hour server support. All our servers have redundant power supplies to maximize system and data availability. We regularly back-up our databases automatically on storage devices hosted at an Internet data center to minimize the impact of data loss due to system failures and we maintain back-up files offsite to facilitate disaster recovery. D. Trend Information Other than as disclosed elsewhere in this annual report, we are not aware of any trends, uncertainties, demands, commitments or events that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our net revenues, income, profitability, liquidity or capital resources, or that caused the disclosed financial information to be not necessarily indicative of future operating results or financial conditions. E. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any financial guarantees or other commitments to guarantee the payment obligations of any third parties. In addition, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity. Furthermore, we do not have any variable interest in any unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit support to us or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us. Authoritative pronouncement regarding consolidation of variable-interest entities requires a “variable-interest entity” to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of such entity. An entity is considered to be a variable-interest entity if certain conditions are present, including where the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. As a result of our various agreements with Hongcheng Education and its respective shareholders, we are considered to be the primary beneficiary of Hongcheng Education and all its subsidiaries. The financial statements of Hongcheng Education and all its subsidiaries have been consolidated into our financial statements. All significant transactions and balances between us, our subsidiaries, Hongcheng Education and all its subsidiaries have been eliminated upon consolidation. F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2013. Payment Due by December 31 Total 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Thereafter (In RMB thousands) Operating lease obligations 20,476 9,075 4,355 3,444 2,002 1,578 22 Facility fees to a middle school (1) 13,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 7,200 Capital obligations for private primary and secondary schools (2) 65,827 1,075 Unrecognized tax benefit (3) 10,873 86 Table of Contents (1) These amounts represent the user fees that our Anqing School will pay to the Fourth Middle School of Anqing for the use of certain facilities of the Fourth Middle School of Anqing over the period set out in the related agreement. (2) These amounts include the remaining portion of our capital commitments to the Jingzhou government for the expansion of the Jingzhou School (Southern Campus) (approximately RMB64.8 million ($10.7 million)), and also include RMB1.1 million ($0.2 million) that has been contracted for the Anqing School and the Pingdingshan School’s constructions with third-party contractors in 2014. Since we do not know when construction will begin at the Jingzhou School, we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of the capital commitment for the Jingzhou School. (3) This amount represents unrecognized tax benefit pursuant to the authoritative pronouncement regarding to accounting for uncertainties in income tax. Since there is a high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows, we are unable to make reasonable estimates regarding the timing of settlement with the respective tax authority. Other than the contractual obligations set forth above, we do not have any other long-term debt obligations, operating lease obligations, purchase obligations or other long-term liabilities. G. Safe Harbor This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements by words or phrases such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “is expected to,” “anticipate,” “aim,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “is/are likely to” or other similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. These forward-looking statements include: · our anticipated growth strategies; · our future business development, results of operations and financial condition; · expected changes in our revenues and certain cost and expense items; · our ability to increase student enrollments and course fees and expand program, service and product offerings; · competition in the language training, test preparation, primary and secondary education, educational content, software and other technology development and online education markets; · risks associated with our offering of new educational programs, services and products and the expansion of our geographic reach; · risks associated with our existing development projects, including construction delays or cost overruns with respect to our pending campus construction projects and the build out of our learning center network, which may increase project costs, and the failure of the newly developed learning centers to perform as expected; · the expected increase in expenditures on education in China; · PRC laws, regulations and policies relating to private education and providers of private educational services; and · general economic, business and other market conditions in the PRC and worldwide, including the ability of the general global economy to recover timely from the current economic downturn. You should read thoroughly this annual report and the documents that we refer to herein with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from and/or worse than what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Other sections of this annual report include additional factors which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in an evolving environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. This annual report also contains third-party data relating to the education market in China that includes projections based on a number of assumptions. The education market may not grow at the rates projected by market data, or at all. The failure of this market to grow at the projected rates may have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our ADSs. Furthermore, if any one or more of the assumptions underlying the market data turns out to be incorrect, actual results may differ from the projections based on these assumptions. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. 87 Table of Contents You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The forward-looking statements made in this annual report relate only to events or information as of the date on which the statements are made in this annual report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees A. Directors and Senior Management Directors and Senior Management Members of our board of directors are elected by our shareholders. Our executive officers are appointed by, and serve at the discretion of, our board of directors. The following table sets forth information concerning our directors and executive officers. The business address of each of our directors and executive officers listed below is 4th Floor-A, GeHua Building, No. 1 Qinglong Hutong, Dongcheng District, Beijing, 100007, the People’s Republic of China. Name Age Positions Julia Huang 46 Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors Shawn Ding 50 Chief Executive Officer, Director Zonglian Gu 59 Director Samuel Yen 42 Director Min Fan 49 Director Tianwen Liu 52 Director Yixin Mei 43 Chief Financial Officer Changqing Xie 51 Vice President Xia Zhu 47 Vice President Lingling Chen 41 Vice President Honglan Zhang 49 Vice President Julia Huang has served as our chairman since September 2007 and as our chief executive officer from June 2000 to January 2012. Prior to joining us, she served in various positions at Ernst & Young Management Consulting (New York) Group. Ms. Huang also served as a project manager at Merck &Co.. Ms. Huang holds an MBA from Columbia Business School with concentrations in finance and international business and a master’s degree in chemical engineering and microbiology from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. Shawn Ding has served as our chief executive officer since January 2012 and as our director since December 2004. Mr. Ding served as our president and chief operating officer from December 2004 to January 2012. Mr. Ding joined us in July 2001 as our chief technology officer. From 2000 to 2001, Mr. Ding was the chief technology officer of Infostream Technologies Inc., a U.S. company specializing in the development and implementation of packaged and customized enterprise resource planning software. He also served as a director of Internet application development at Automatic Data Processing, Inc. from 1999 to 2000 and was a director of system architecture at Prudential Insurance Company of America from 1992 to 1998. Mr. Ding received a bachelor’s degree in environmental science from Peking University, a bachelor’s degree in computer science from Rutgers University, and a master’s degree in computer science from the New Jersey Institute of Technology. Zonglian Gu has served as one of our directors since March 2005. Mr. Gu joined CMR Web as general manager in November 2001. Mr. Gu also currently serves as the dean of Renmin University of China’s Online Education College, and was previously a professor at Renmin University of China and served as the vice dean of Renmin University of China Online Education College and vice dean of the Adult Education College Department of Renmin University of China. Mr. Gu holds a bachelor’s degree in international politics from Renmin University of China and has over 21 years of experience in the public education sector. 88 Table of Contents Samuel Yen was elected as a director of our company in October 2007. Mr. Yen is the vice president of finance at Alibaba Group, a leading e-commerce company operating online marketplaces for businesses and consumers. From 2004 to 2005, Mr. Yen served as financial controller and company secretary of Dynasty Fine Wines Group Limited and prior to that Mr. Yen served in various positions at PricewaterhouseCoopers and Arthur Andersen & Co., lastly as a senior manager. Mr. Yen received a bachelor’s degree in commerce from the University of Toronto and is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Institute of Certified Management Accountants and the CFA Institute. Min Fan was elected as a director of our company in October 2007. Mr. Fan is one of the co-founders and the current vice chairman and president of Ctrip.com International Ltd., a leading travel services firm in China. From 2000 to 2004, Mr. Fan served as Ctrip’s chief operating officer and executive vice president. Prior to founding Ctrip in 1999, Mr. Fan was the chief executive officer of Shanghai Travel Service Company, a leading domestic travel agency in China, and from 1990 to 1997 served in a number of senior management positions at Shanghai New Asia Hotel Management Company. Mr. Fan holds a master’s and a bachelor’s degree from Shanghai Jiao Tong University and has studied at the Lausanne Hotel Management School of Switzerland. Tianwen Liu was elected as a director of our company in September 2008. Mr. Liu is the chairman and chief executive officer of iSoftStone Information Service Corporation. Mr. Liu founded iSoftStone, one of the fastest growing IT outsourcing companies in China. He has over 21 years of experience in the IT sector. Prior to iSoftStone, Mr. Liu co-founded AsiaEC.com in 1999, and led the effort to build the company from the ground up and grow it to become China’s largest on-line office supply and services provider. Prior to AsiaEC.com, Mr. Liu served as the general manager of Siemens Business Services and Siemens Nixdorf Information Technologies from 1996-1999, where he was responsible for IT consulting, system integration, and outsourcing businesses in China. Before that, Mr. Liu worked for several consulting and IT companies in the U.S., including Bechtel and DEC. Mr. Liu holds a MBA from Massachusetts Institute of Technology, as well as a master’s degree in electrical engineering from the University of Massachusetts. Yixin Mei joined our company as chief financial officer in November 2011. Prior to joining ChinaEdu, Mr. Mei was a senior manager in assurance and advisory services with Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., or Deloitte, in Beijing, China. Prior to joining Deloitte, Mr. Mei held senior manager and manager positions at Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG LLP, respectively, during his nine years in Canada and also served as a finance and administrative manager in Beijing for Kennametal Ltd., a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, where he was responsible for financial reporting, strategic planning, treasury, risk management, investor and bank relations, corporate governance, taxation, audit and budgeting for Kennametal Ltd’s operations in China. Mr. Mei began his career as a corporate accountant for China Trust and Investment Corporation for Economic Development, a state-owned financial institution, in Beijing, where he was responsible for financial reporting. Mr. Mei holds a master’s degree in finance from Renmin University of China in Beijing and a bachelor’s degree in finance from Zhong Nan University of Finance and Economics in Wuhan, China. He earned his certified management accountant designation of the United States in 2003 and his Canadian chartered accountant designation in Edmonton, Canada in 2006. Changqing Xie has served as a vice president of our company since February 2005. Prior to joining us, Mr. Xie was the chief executive officer of Wellent Institute of Education International (Asia) Limited from January 2001 to January 2005. He served as a manager of Oriental Patron Financial Services Group from August 1997 to December 2000. From January 1988 to August 1993, Mr. Xie was a lecturer at Peking University. Mr. Xie received a master’s degree in geography from Peking University and a MBA degree from the University of Georgia. Xia Zhu has served as a vice president of our company since 2012. She joined ChinaEdu in 2009 as the Deputy General Manager of Hongcheng Xueyuan. Prior to joining ChinaEdu, Ms. Zhu served as the General Manager of Star Software Co., Ltd, a company she founded in 1993. Ms. Zhu received a bachelor’s degree in Computer Science from Lanzhou University in 1989. Lingling Chen has served as a vice president of our company since 2009. She joined ChinaEdu in 2005 as the director of human resources and became the general manager of our 101 Online Tutoring programs in 2008. Prior to joining the company, Ms. Chen was the director of human resources at Tsinghua Tongfang. She has over 13 years of experience in human resources management and also received national license in psychology and professional teaching license. Ms. Chen received a bachelor’s degree in history at Liaoning University in 1997. 89 Table of Contents Honglan Zhang joined our company in 2006 as vice president of business development. From 2000 to 2006, Ms. Zhang was the general manager of the Distance Education division and the vice president of operations at Oriental Group Satellite Network Technology Co., Ltd. She received a bachelor’s degree in Biology from East China Normal University in 1987. Employment Agreements We have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers. The terms of these agreements are substantially similar to each other. Under these agreements, we have agreed to employ each of our executive officers for a period of three years, provided that their respective employment relationship with our company may be terminated by us or the executive officer under certain circumstances. These agreements do not provide for any special termination or severance benefits beyond what is required under the relevant laws of the PRC, nor do we have other arrangements with these executive officers regarding such matters. Under these agreements, each executive officer has agreed not to disclose our confidential information and to abide by certain non-competition restrictions during his or her tenure with our company and for a period of two years thereafter. B. Compensation Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers For the year ended December 31, 2013, we paid aggregate cash compensation of approximately RMB8.4 million ($1.4 million) to our executive officers as a group. Aggregate cash compensation includes all salary, cash bonuses and housing allowances paid by us. We did not provide any non-cash compensation to our executive officers as a group in 2013. We paid aggregate cash compensation of approximately RMB0.2 million in 2013to our three independent directors for their services as directors. We did not provide any non-cash compensation to our non-executive or independent directors in 2013. Stock-Based Compensation Plans We amended our Equity Incentive Plan, or Amended Equity Incentive Plan, by a written resolution adopted by our compensation committee on August 18, 2010. Our Amended Equity Incentive Plan changed the annual increase in number of shares available for issuance under the equity incentive plan from 2% of our outstanding shares as of December 31st of the preceding year to 2.5% of the same. The other terms of the Amended Equity Incentive plan remain unchanged. The Amended Equity Incentive Plan provides for the grant of options as well as restricted shares and RSUs, referred to as “awards.” The purpose of the plan is to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of substantial responsibility, provide additional incentive to employees, directors and consultants, and promote the success of our business. Administration. The compensation committee of our board of directors will administer the plan. Subject to the provisions of the Amended Equity Incentive Plan, the compensation committee has the authority, in its sole discretion to, among other things, amend or modify outstanding awards under the plan, only in ways that will not be adverse to the award/option holder, including, without limitation, the re-pricing of options with an exercise price that is higher than the current trading price of our shares, or “underwater” options, or the replacement of an option with cash or other award type that would be treated as a re-pricing under the rules of the stock exchange on which the shares are listed. In addition, our shareholders also approved an amendment to the plan that eliminated the requirement that subsequent amendments to the Amended Equity Incentive Plan be submitted for shareholder approval (to the extent such shareholder approval would have been required under the stock exchange on which our securities are listed). Option Terms. Share options granted under our Amended Equity Incentive Plan may be incentive share options, or ISOs, which are intended to qualify for favorable U.S. federal income tax treatment under the provisions of Section 422 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or non-qualified share options, or NSOs, which do not so qualify. Under our Amended Equity Incentive Plan, the exercise price of ISOs cannot be less than the fair market value of our ordinary shares on the date of grant. However, in the case of an ISO granted to a grantee who at the time of grant owned shares possessing more than 10.0% of the combined voting power of all classes of our share capital (including any equity of any of our PRC subsidiaries), the option price may not be less than 110.0% of the fair market value of our ordinary shares on the date of grant of such ISO and the option period may not be greater than five years from the date of grant. The exercise price for NSOs is determined by the board of directors but may not be less than the fair market value of ordinary shares on the date of grant. 90 Table of Contents Eligibility. Under our Amended Equity Incentive Plan, awards may be issued to employees, non-employee directors or consultants of our company or our PRC subsidiaries, although ISOs may only be issued to our employees or the employees of our PRC subsidiaries. Option Exercise and Termination of Awards. Share options granted under the plan may be exercised within the option period specified by our board of directors or the compensation committee (after it is established), which shall not be more than ten years from the date of option grant. If an option holder’s service terminates due to the option holder’s death or disability, the unvested portion of a share option is forfeited and the vested portion is still exercisable for a period of one year following the option holder’s death or disability or until the expiration of the option period (if sooner). If an option holder’s service ends for reasons other than death or disability, the unvested portion of a share option will be forfeited and the vested portion will be exercisable for a period of ninety days following the option holder’s termination or until the expiration of the option period (if sooner). Awards of restricted stock or RSUs that are unvested will be forfeited at the time of termination of service. Third-Party Acquisition. If a third party acquires us through a merger or consolidation transaction in which we are not the surviving corporation, all outstanding share options will be substituted by the surviving or resulting corporation. We are authorized to cancel any outstanding options upon the effective date of any such transaction, provided that we notify each option holder of our intention to do so at least 30 days prior to the effective date of the transaction and permit the optionees to exercise their options in full during this period. We are also authorized to cancel any outstanding awards and pay or deliver to the holder an amount in cash or securities having a value equal to the formula or fixed price per share paid to shareholders in the case of restricted stock or RSUs. In the case of options, the holder will receive an amount equal to the product of the number of shares subject to the option multiplied by the amount, if any, by which the formula or fixed price per share paid to shareholders in the transaction exceeds the option exercise price applicable to such award. Amendment and Termination of Plan. Our board of directors may at any time amend, suspend or terminate the Amended Equity Incentive Plan without shareholder approval. However, any amendment, suspension or termination of the plan may not adversely affect awards already granted without consent of the recipient of such awards. Unless terminated earlier, the Amended Equity Incentive Plan shall continue in effect for a term of ten years from the date of adoption. As of April 22, 2014, our board of directors has authorized the issuance of up to 20,277,961 ordinary shares upon exercise of awards granted under our equity incentive plan, with an increase each year equal to 2.5% of the outstanding number of shares as of the immediately preceding year ended December 31. As of April 22, 2014, options to purchase 6,638,890 ordinary shares were outstanding and options to purchase 2,110,061 ordinary shares remained available for future option grants. The following table summarizes the outstanding option shares granted to our directors and executive officers as of April 22, 2014: Name Ordinary Shares Underlying Option Grant Exercise Price ($/share) Expiration Date Julia Huang (1) 1,768,280 Vary from 1.09 to 2.25 Vary from July 2015 to December 2019 Shawn Ding (2) 1,816,280 Vary from 0.86 to 2.25 Vary from July 2015 to December 2019 Zhonglian Gu * Vary from 1.26 to 1.80 Vary from April 2015 to April 2017 Samuel Yen * 1.80 January 2018 Min Fan * 1.83 December 2017 Tianwen Liu * 1.56 September 2018 Yixin Mei * 1.80 November 2021 Changqing Xie * Vary from 0.86 to 1.80 Vary from December 2014 to March 2018 Xia Zhu — — — Honglan Zhang * Vary from 1.58 to 2.25 Vary from December 2015 to December 2019 91 Table of Contents * Director or executive officer who beneficially owns less than 1% of our ordinary shares outstanding as of April 22, 2014, including the ordinary shares underlying options exercisable by such person within 60 days . (1) Ms. Huang designated the stock options that she beneficially owns to South Lead Technology Limited, a British Virgin Islands company. (2) Mr. Ding designated the stock options that he beneficially owns to Moral Known Industrial Limited, a British Virgin Islands company. Stock Incentive Plan-Restricted Share Units In September 2010, the compensation committee of our board of directors approved a RSU awards program pursuant to the Amended Equity Incentive Plan. Each RSU represents the contingent right of the participant to receive an ordinary share with zero exercise price. In May and November 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved a Restricted Share Units (“RSUs”) awards programs respectively pursuant to the Equity Incentive Plan. Each RSU represents the right of the participant to receive a share of ordinary share. All RSUs granted in May 2012 will be vested at the end of the third year after the grant, which is May 2015. 75% and 25% of the RSUs granted in November 2012 will be vested at the end of the third and fourth year after the grant, which is November 2015 and November 2016 respectively. The following table summarizes, as of April 22, 2014, the RSUs granted under the program to our directors and executive officers: Name Number of Restricted Share Units Price (US$/Share) Vesting Dates Julia Huang 750,000 — 2013, 2015 and 2016 Shawn Ding 873,000 — 2013, 2015 and 2016 Pension and Similar Benefits Full-time employees of our company in the PRC participate in a government-mandated defined contribution plan pursuant to which certain pension benefits, medical care, unemployment insurance, employee housing fund and other welfare benefits are provided to employees. PRC labor regulations require us to accrue for these benefits based on certain percentages of the employees’ salaries. The total amount we have accrued under such employee benefits plans as of December 31, 2013 was approximately RMB38.4 million ($6.3 million). C. Board Practices Board Composition Our board of directors consists of six directors, three of whom satisfy the “independence” requirements of the Nasdaq Listing Rules and the SEC regulations. We will rely on Nasdaq Listing Rules that permits a foreign private issuer to be exempted from the requirement that a majority of its board of directors be “independent.” We intend to comply, however, with the other Nasdaq Listing Rules, in particular, the independence requirements for the relevant board committees discussed below. There are no family relationships between any of our directors and executive officers. Committees of the Board of Directors To enhance our corporate governance, we have established three committees under the board of directors: the audit committee, the compensation committee and the nominating committee. We adopted charters for each of these committees. The committees have the following functions and members: 92 Table of Contents Audit Committee Our audit committee consists of Samuel Yen, Min Fan and Tianwen Liu. Our board of directors has determined that each of Samuel Yen, Min Fan and Tianwen Liu satisfies the “independence” requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 5605(a)(2) of the Nasdaq Listing Rules. Mr. Yen serves as chairman of the audit committee and meets the criteria of an audit committee financial expert as set forth under the applicable rules of the SEC. Our audit committee is responsible for, among other things: · the appointment, evaluation, compensation, oversight and termination of the work of our independent registered public accounting firm (including the resolution of disagreements between our management and the independent registered public accounting firm regarding financial reporting); · ensuring that it receives from our independent registered public accounting firm a formal written statement attesting to the registered public accounting firm’s independence and describing all relationships between our independent registered public accounting firm and us; · pre-approving both audit and non-audit services, including tax services, to be provided by our independent registered public accounting firm in accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rules; · reviewing our annual audited financial statements and, if deemed appropriate by the audit committee, other publicly disclosed financial information; · reviewing with our independent registered public accounting firm all critical accounting policies and practices to be used by us in preparing our financial statements, all alternative treatments of financial information within U.S. GAAP, and other material communications between our independent registered public accounting firm and management; · reviewing our policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management; · reviewing, with management and counsel, any legal matters that may have a material impact on us and any material reports or inquiries from regulatory or governmental agencies; and · ensuring that we have established procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing matters or potential violations of law, and the confidential, anonymous submission by our employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters or potential violations of law. Compensation Committee Our compensation committee consists of Samuel Yen, Min Fan and Tianwen Liu. Our board of directors has determined that each of Samuel Yen, Min Fan and Tianwen Liu satisfies the “independence” requirements of Rule 5605(a)(2) of the Nasdaq Listing Rules. Tianwen Liu serves as chairman of the compensation committee. Our compensation committee assists the board in reviewing and approving the compensation structure of our directors and executive officers, including all forms of compensation to be provided to our directors and executive officers. In addition, the compensation committee reviews stock compensation arrangements for all of our other employees. Members of the compensation committee will not be prohibited from direct involvement in determining their own compensation. Our chief executive officer is not permitted to be present at any committee meeting during which his or her compensation is deliberated. Our compensation committee is responsible for, among other things: · approving and overseeing the total compensation package for our executives; · reviewing and making recommendations to the board with respect to the compensation of our directors; · reviewing and approving corporate goals and objectives relevant to the compensation of our chief executive officer, evaluating the performance of our chief executive officer in light of those goals and objectives, and setting the compensation level of our chief executive officer based on this evaluation; · reviewing the results of, and procedures for, the evaluation of the performance of other executive officers; · reviewing periodically and making recommendations to the board regarding any long-term incentive compensation or equity plans, programs or similar arrangements, and administering these plans; · reviewing and making recommendations to the board regarding all new employment, consulting, retirement and severance agreements and arrangements proposed for our executives; and · selecting peer groups of companies to be used for purposes of determining competitive compensation packages. 93 Table of Contents Nominating Committee Our nominating committee consists of Samuel Yen, Min Fan and Tianwen Liu. Our board of directors has determined that each of Samuel Yen, Min Fan and Tianwen Liu satisfies the “independence” requirements of Rule 5605(a)(2) of the Nasdaq Listing Rules. Min Fan serves as chairman of the nominating committee. The nominating committee assists the board in selecting individuals qualified to become our directors and in determining the composition of the board and its committees. Our nominating committee is responsible for, among other things: · selecting and recommending to the board nominees for election or re-election to the board; and · reviewing annually with the board the current composition of the board with regards to characteristics such as independence, skills, experience, age and availability of service to us. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Our board of directors has adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, which will be applicable to all of our directors, officers and employees. We have made our code of business conduct and ethics publicly available on our website at ir.chinaedu.net. Duties of Directors Under Cayman Islands law, our directors have a common law duty of loyalty to act honestly, in good faith and with a view to our best interests. Our directors also have a duty to exercise the care, diligence and skills that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. In fulfilling their duty of care to us, our directors must ensure compliance with our fifth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association(as amended). Under Cayman Islands law, English common law is of persuasive authority before the Cayman Islands courts and they would ordinarily be expected to follow English case law precedents which permit a minority shareholder to commence a representative action against or derivative actions in the name of the company to challenge (a) an act which is ultra vires the company or illegal; (b) an act which constitutes a fraud against the minority and the wrongdoers are themselves in control of the company;(c) an act which is an infringement of individual rights of shareholders; and (d) an irregularity in the passing of a resolution which requires a qualified (or special) majority. Subject to the provisions of our amended and restated articles of association (as amended) and the Companies Law (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) of the Cayman Islands, hereinafter referred to as the Companies Law, the functions and powers of our board of directors include, among others: · managing the business and affairs of our company in the interest, and for the benefit, of our shareholders as a whole in order to enhance shareholder value over the long term; · exercising its business judgment to act in a manner which it reasonably believes to be in the best interests of our company and shareholders as a whole consistent with its fiduciary duties; · reviewing and, where appropriate, approving our major strategic, financial and business objectives, plans and actions; · establishing policies and principles for the selection, and possible succession planning, of directors, the chief executive officer and other senior management officers; · convening our annual general meetings and reporting its work to shareholders at such meetings; · declaring dividends and distributions; · appointing officers and determining the term of office of the officers; · exercising the borrowing powers of our company and mortgaging the property of our company; and · approving the transfer of shares in our company, including the registering of such shares in our share register. Interested Transactions Following a declaration being made pursuant to our fifth amended and restated articles of association (as amended), subject to any separate requirement for any audit committee approval under applicable law or the listing rules of the National Market of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., and unless disqualified by the chairman of the relevant board meeting, a director may vote in respect of any contract or proposed contract or arrangement in which such director is interested and may be counted in the quorum at such meeting. 94 Table of Contents Remuneration and Borrowing The directors shall receive remuneration as the board may from time to time determine. Each director shall be entitled to be repaid or prepaid all traveling, hotel and incidental expenses reasonably incurred or expected to incurred by him in attending meetings of the board or committees of the board or general meetings or separate meetings of any class of shares or of debenture of our company or otherwise in connection with the discharge of his duties as a director. The ordinary remuneration of the directors shall from time to time be determined by our company in general meeting and shall (unless otherwise directed by the resolutions by which it is voted) be divided amongst the board in such proportions and in such manner as the board of directors may agree or, failing agreement, equally, except that any director who shall hold office for part only of the period in respect of which such remuneration is payable shall be entitled only to rank in such division for a proportion of remuneration related to the period during which has held office. The compensation committee will assist the directors in reviewing and approving the compensation structure for the directors. Subject to our fifth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association (as amended), the directors may exercise all the powers of our company to raise or borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of our undertaking, property and assets (present and future) and uncalled capital of our company and, subject to the Companies Law, to issue debentures, bonds and other securities whether outright or as security for any debt, liability or obligation of our company or of any third party. Qualification A director is not required to hold any shares in our company in order to serve as a director. Terms of Directors and Executive Officers At each annual general meeting of our company, one-fourth of our directors for the time being (or if their number is not a multiple of four, the number nearest to but not greater than one-fourth) shall retire from office by rotation provided that the chairman of the board and/or the managing director of our company shall not, whilst holding such office, be subject to retirement by rotation or be taken into account in determining the number of directors to retire in each year. Notwithstanding the above and the provision under article 86(5) of our amended and restated articles of association (as amended), during any period from the date of an annual general meeting (including such date) to the date of the next annual general meeting (excluding such date), the total number of directors who retire by rotation or are removed from office pursuant to article 86(5) shall not be greater than one-third of the number of directors (or if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not greater than one-third). A retiring director shall be eligible for re-election. The service agreements for each of the directors do not provide for any special termination or severance benefits beyond what is required under the relevant laws of the PRC, nor do we have other arrangements with our directors regarding such matters. D. Employees We had 2,116 employees, 2,137employees and 1,950 employees as of December 31, 2011, 2012and 2013, respectively. The decrease in our employee headcount from 2011to 2013was primarily due tonatural wastage and the initiatives taken by the company to be more productive with employeesThe following table sets forth the number of our employees categorized by function and the percentage of each category of our total employees as of December 31, 2013. Employees Percentage Operations and program support 1,206 61.9 % Management and administration 387 19.8 % Research and development 231 11.8 % Selling and marketing 126 6.5 % Total number of employees 1,950 100.0 % We believe that our relations with our employees are good, and we have not experienced any significant labor disputes. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreements or labor unions. 95 Table of Contents We are required by PRC law to participate in various government sponsored benefit and pension programs for our employees. We are required to accrue a portion of the salaries, bonuses and certain other payments to our employees for these benefits. The total amount we have accrued under our employee benefits plans for the fiscal year 2013was approximately RMB38.4 million ($6.3 million). Under our equity incentive plan, we granted certain employees options to purchase our ordinary shares. For a description of our equity incentive plan, see “—B. Compensation—Stock-Based Compensation Plans.” E. Share Ownership The following table sets forth information, as of April 22, 2014, with respect to the beneficial ownership of our ordinary shares held by: · each of our directors and executive officers; and · each person known to us to own beneficially more than 5% of our ordinary shares. Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC and includes voting or investment power with respect to securities. Except as indicated below, and subject to applicable community property laws, the persons named in the table below have sole voting and investment power with respect to all ordinary shares beneficially owned by them. A shareholder is also deemed to be, as of any date, the beneficial owner of all securities that such shareholder has the right to acquire within 60 days after that date through (a) the exercise of any option, warrant or right, (b) the conversion of a security, (c) the power to revoke a trust, discretionary account or similar arrangement, or (d) the automatic termination of a trust, discretionary account or similar arrangement. Ordinary Shares Beneficially Owned Number (1) % (2) Directors and Executive Officers Julia Huang (3) 2,516,780 7.4 Shawn Ding (4) 3,125,540 9.2 Zonglian Gu (5) 1,815,000 5.3 Samuel Yen * * Min Fan * * Tianwen Liu * * Yixin Mei * * Changqing Xie * * Xia Zhu — — Lingling Chen * * Honglan Zhang * * All directors and executive officers as a group (10 persons) 8,310,920 24.4 Major Shareholders McGraw-Hill Global Education Intermediate Holdings, LLC 4,770,236 14.0 Right Union Investment Limited 2,903,690 8.5 Time Century Investments, Ltd 2,437,500 7.2 MLP Holdings Limited 2,000,000 5.9 InterVision Technology Limited 1,749,635 5.1 * Director or executive officer who beneficially owns less than 1% of our ordinary shares outstanding as of April 22, 2014. (1) Beneficial ownership of each listed person includes the shares such person has the right to acquire within 60 days. (2) Percentage of beneficial ownership of each listed person is based on 25,748,908 ordinary shares outstanding as of April 22, 2014 and the ordinary shares underlying options and warrants exercisable by such person within 60 days. (3) Represents (i) 33,000 Shares held by Julia Huang, (ii) 540,000 Shares held by South Lead TechnologyLimited, a British Virgin Islands Company, and (iii) 1,943,780 Shares underlying stock options and RSUsexercisable within 60 days beneficially owned by Ms. Huang that have been designated to South LeadTechnology Limited. (4) Represents (1) 75,000 Shares held by Shawn Ding, (ii) 965,160 Shares held by Moral Known IndustrialLimited, aBritish Virgin Islands Company, and (iii) 2,085,380 Shares underlying stock options and RSUsexercisable within 60 days beneficially owned by Mr. Ding that have been designated to Moral KnownIndustrial Limited. (5) Represents 1,745,000 Shares held by Rendashiji Technology Development Co., Ltd. and 70,000 Sharesunderlying stock options exercisable within 60 days beneficially owned by Mr. Gu. Mr. Gu disclaimsbeneficial ownership of all of the Shares held by Rendashiji Technology Development Co., Ltd., exceptto the extent of his pecuniary interest therein. 96 Table of Contents To our knowledge, we had a total of 11 record holders in the United States. Bank of New York Mellon, as the depositary of our ADS facility, was the only record holder of our ADSs representing ordinary shares in the United States, holding approximately 92.0% of our total outstanding ordinary shares. The number of beneficial owners of our ADSs in the United States is likely much larger than the number of record holders of our ordinary shares in the United States. None of our existing shareholders have voting rights that differ from the voting rights of other shareholders after the closing of our initial public offering. Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions A. Major Shareholders Please refer to “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — E. Share Ownership.” B. Related Party Transactions Mr. Gu is the dean of Renmin University Online Education School and also the general manager of CMR Web, which is the collaborative alliance between Renmin University and the Company. As disclosed in Item 4.C. Organizational Structure, CMR Web is the Company’s 70% owned subsidiary and the remaining 30% of CMR Web is owned by Rendashiji, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Renmin University of China. Mr. Gu is not a shareholder of Rendashiji, nor does he hold any management positions with Rendashiji. See note 23 on page F-66 for details on the related party transaction between Online Education School of Renmin University of China and the Company. Contractual Arrangements Relating to our Affiliated Entity Due to PRC regulatory restrictions on foreign investment in the Internet and K-12 education sectors, we entered into a series of agreements with Hongcheng Education, our PRC-affiliated entity in which we do not have a direct ownership interest, for us to maintain effective control over and receive the economic benefits of this entity. For the regulatory restrictions, see “