risk factors below under “Risks Related to China’s Regulation of the Education and Telecommunication Sectors and Our Corporate Structure.” There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations. If we or any of our Chinese subsidiaries or Chinese affiliated entities are found to be or to have been in violation of Chinese laws or regulations limiting foreign ownership or participation in the education or telecommunication sectors, the relevant regulatory authorities have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to: · levying fines and confiscating illegal income; · restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from our initial public offering to finance our business and operations in China; · requiring us to restructure the ownership structure or operations of our Chinese subsidiaries or Chinese affiliated entities; · requiring us to discontinue all or a portion of our business; and/or · revoking our business licenses. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct all or a substantial portion of our business operations, and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a majority of our revenue by providing services to online degree programs, and any adverse development in this business will materially and adversely affect our overall results of operations. For fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, approximately 73.5%, 76.3%, and 80.4%, respectively, of our net revenue was generated from services provided to online degree programs of Chinese universities. The continued growth of this business line depends on our ability to attract new university customers and the ability of these universities to increase student enrollment for their online degree programs. We face many challenges in our online degree program services business, including: · our structure for this line of business, in which services are provided to our university customers’ online degree programs by one of our Chinese subsidiaries and affiliated entities, may be found by Chinese regulatory authorities to violate restrictions on entities other than universities being responsible for online degree programs; · the demand for online degree programs depends on the social acceptance and perceived attractiveness of degrees offered by these programs, which may decline due to actual or perceived quality problems at online degree programs and the increased availability of alternatives such as traditional degree programs, on-the-job training and overseas programs; · the universities with online degree programs have primary responsibility for these programs and their priorities and objectives may conflict with our own objectives of growing our revenue and profits from servicing these programs; and · each of the universities with online degree programs has been approved by China’s Ministry of Education, or the MOE, to operate these programs as part of the MOE’s pilot program for online education and there is no assurance that the MOE will not restrict, suspend or revoke this program in the future or that any of the currently approved universities, including our university partners, will continue to qualify for this program. A significant factor affecting the results of our online degree program business is the fees that our university partners are required to pay to independent learning centers. The share of tuition revenue that we receive is after the payment of fees to learning centers. As a result, an increase in the portion of tuition fees paid to the learning centers will result in a decrease in the 5 Table of Contents portion of tuition fees that we receive as revenue. In 2007, our university partners paid fees to independent learning centers in amounts ranging from 23% to 56% of the gross tuition revenues received by their online degree programs. In 2008, these same fees ranged in amounts from 23% to 54% of the gross tuition revenues received by their online degree programs. For fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, the portion of gross tuition fees that our university partners paid in aggregate to independent learning centers was approximately 39%, 40% and 39%, respectively. There can be no assurance that the amounts payable to independent learning centers, as a portion of gross tuition fees, will not increase. To the extent any of the factors discussed above or other adverse developments occur in the online degree program sector, our revenue and results of operations from our online degree program services business could be adversely affected. Most of our revenue comes from a limited number of customers, the loss of which could significantly impact our revenue and results of operations. For fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2007, and 2008, 67.3%, 68.2% and 67.3%, respectively, of our net revenue was derived from our services to our five largest online degree program customers. Our three largest customers, Renmin University of China, China Agricultural University and Dongbei University of Finance and Economics, accounted for 22.1%, 15.2 % and 13.3%, respectively, of our net revenue in 2008. These same customers accounted for 21.1%, 17.3% and 14.0%, respectively, of our net revenue in 2007. We will likely continue to rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. If for any reason our revenue from any of our significant customers or other online degree programs were to decline or if we were to lose any of our significant customers, our revenue and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We may not succeed in attracting additional university online degree programs as customers and our growth prospects could suffer. Although our strategy is to increase the number of online degree programs using our services, we may not be able to attract additional university customers. Developing and entering into a relationship with a university requires considerable effort on our part, and we may spend considerable time and still may not be successful in developing a new customer. Our ability to expand our services to additional online degree programs is dependent on our ability to identify potential university partners who can provide course offerings that will be attractive to the target market and to develop a mutually acceptable arrangement with the university for the development of a program. Some of the universities offering online degree programs that do not utilize our services have developed their own technology platforms, and others have entered into service agreements with other service providers. Some of the universities we would like to partner with may not have goals and objectives that are compatible with ours, may be subject to long-term contracts with other service providers, or may have cumbersome decision-making procedures that may delay or prohibit our entering into a service relationship with them. In addition, some of these universities are also being pursued by our competitors. As a result, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in attracting additional universities to which we can provide services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing new service relationships, our strategic growth objectives may not be achieved, thereby adversely impacting our prospects and results of operations. The tuition charged by online degree programs, the secondary and vocational schools that we provide curriculum programs to and our private primary and secondary schools are all subject to price controls administered by the Chinese government, and our revenue is highly dependent on the level of these tuition charges. In the year ended December 31, 2008, 80.4% of our net revenue was generated by providing services to online degree programs. Our revenue in this segment comes primarily from service fees that are paid by universities and calculated as a percentage of the tuition revenue of the online degree programs that we provide services to, and the tuition charges for these programs are subject to price controls administered by various price control offices under China’s National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC. Similarly, our revenue from the curriculum programs that we offer to secondary and vocational schools is also directly dependent on the tuition revenue of those schools, and those tuition charges are subject to administrative price controls. The tuition charges of our private primary and secondary schools are also subject to price controls. In light of the substantial increase in tuitions and other education-related fees in China in recent years, China’s price control authorities may impose stricter price control on tuition charges in the future. If the tuition charges upon which our revenue depends, particularly the tuition charges for online degree programs, were to be decreased or if they were not to increase in line with increases in our costs because of the actions of China’s administrative price controls, our revenue and profitability would be adversely affected. Our international curriculum programs, which include our Ploytechnic and English language programs, are heavily regulated, and our ability to conduct business in this area is highly dependent on regulatory policies and our compliance with these policies. Our international post-secondary Polytechnic curriculum program, or BCIT program, has recently been restricted in its ability to contract new schools. In April 2007, the MOE issued the Circular on Further Regulating Chinese-Foreign Cooperative Education Programs. The circular directs the local education authorities generally to suspend the approval of any new Chinese-foreign cooperative polytechnic education programs until the end of 2008, and there is no new policy currently being promulgated to revoke the suspension. To ensure the quality of the Chinese-foreign cooperative education programs, the circular emphasizes the regulatory supervision of these programs and advises local education authorities to closely supervise 6 Table of Contents and monitor the existing programs, especially in recruiting materials, advertisements, and issuance of degrees and diplomas, and directs them to report and remedy any non-compliance by existing programs of the applicable regulations. As a result of this circular, our BCIT program has not been able to contract new schools for the program and we do not expect it will in the near future. Although the circular only discusses the suspension of approvals through the end of 2008, we cannot assure you that our BCIT program will be able to contract new schools in 2009 or at any time after that. In addition, in recent years our English language curriculum program, or FEC program, has faced challenges obtaining certain regulatory approvals. In August 2004, the MOE promulgated the Announcement regarding Re-Approval of Chinese-foreign Cooperative Educational Institutions and Programs, or the Re-Approval Announcement, which requires Chinese-foreign cooperative educational institutions and programs that were established before July 1, 2004 (the effective date of the Re-Approval Announcement) to be re-approved by the MOE. Only four of our 19 contracted schools obtained re-approval from the MOE, and if MOE re-approval is not obtained, the remaining contracted schools may terminate their FEC programs. As a result, in December 2008 we mutually terminated our agreement with Western Institute of Technology at Taranki (“WITT”), a post-secondary education institution based in New Zealand that offers English language programs for overseas students, to serve as the exclusive service provider for all of WITT’s English language programs within China until September 2020. The schools that have been receiving support from us under the FEC program, however, can continue to recruit students under the FEC name even after termination of our agreement with WITT if they desire, since all education related support is provided by us. However, we cannot assure you that any, or all, of the FEC contracted schools will continue to work with us in the future, and our partner schools may face challenges obtaining re-approvals for replacing WITT with other overseas education institutions with whom we may partner. Failure to obtain re-approval for a majority of our contracted schools has adversely affected our results of operations and the prospects for our English language programs, and other regulatory actions could have similar adverse effects on our Polytechnic programs. As a result of these developments, we incurred an impairment charge of RMB68.2 million ($10.0 million) related to the international curriculum program segment during the year ended December 31, 2008, of which RMB39.1 million was related to goodwill impairment and RMB29.1 million was related to intangible assets impairment. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This may result in volatility and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations, primarily due to seasonal changes in the number of students who are enrolled in, or served by, our businesses. Historically, our largest revenue student enrollments occur in the fall, and we generally recognize revenue over the six-month period following these enrollments. As a result, our revenue in the fourth quarter and first quarter of each year, representing the fall semester, have been higher than the other two quarters, which represent the spring semester. Our expenses and costs, however, do not necessarily correspond with changes in our revenue or the number of students who are enrolled in, or served by, our businesses. We expect quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations to continue. These fluctuations could result in volatility and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. As our revenue grows, these seasonal fluctuations may become more pronounced. During prior reporting periods, we identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have since remedied these material weaknesses and significant deficiencies, if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules that now require every public reporting company to include in its annual report management’s report on internal control over financial reporting, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, certain registrants are required to include an attestation report from an independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of such registrant’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 using the criteria set forth in the “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” report published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (known as COSO) and has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. Pursuant to temporary rules implemented by the SEC, this annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2008 does not include an attestation report of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding our internal control over financial reporting. We previously disclosed in our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2007 that we had identified two material weakness and two significant deficiencies. “Material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects our ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with U.S. GAAP such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. During our 2008 fiscal year, we implemented measures to resolve and remediate these material weaknesses and significant deficiencies and to improve our internal and disclosure controls, and we do not believe that the material weaknesses that we previously identified had a pervasive impact on our internal control over financial reporting. See “Item 15. Controls 7 Table of Contents and Procedures — Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that these measures will continue to be effective and that any significant deficiencies and material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Moreover, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Even if we do conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal control or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Furthermore, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help us to manage the company effectively and prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We began operations in 1999 and only initiated three of our four lines of business in 2005 and 2006 through acquisitions. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred a net loss of RMB43.0 million ($6.3 million), primarily due to goodwill and intangible assets impairment losses related to our international curriculum program. We cannot assure you that we will not recognize future impairment charges or incur future losses. We also expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Given our limited operating history and the limited period of time that our management team has worked together, our operating history may not provide you with a sufficient basis upon which to evaluate the ability of our management team to address these risks. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on third parties, particularly the learning centers serving online degree programs, over which we have no control, to perform functions that are critical to the success of our business. The success of our business in providing services to online degree programs depends in part on the actions of learning centers and universities over which we have limited or no control. The learning centers, principally operated by third parties, perform a number of essential functions for universities that operate the online degree programs (such as marketing, enrollment, administration, tuition collection and testing), but we have no ability to ensure that they adequately perform these functions or comply with the regulations and standards applicable to them. If the learning centers upon which our online degree programs are dependent experience regulatory compliance issues, our results of operations and our ability to attract and retain university customers will be adversely affected. In addition, because a university must obtain regulatory approval, which is generally a time consuming process, to either change learning centers or establish its own learning centers, the learning centers maintain a strong negotiating position and are able to demand substantial compensation for their services. Because we face significant competition in several of our lines of business, we could lose market share and may need to respond by lowering our prices, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to our recent collaborative alliance agreement with Guangxi Radio and TV University (discussed elsewhere), we currently serve 18 out of the 67 universities that have been approved to offer online degree programs in China as well as the China Central Radio and TV University, which functions primarily as a distance learning facility. Our revenue from these 18 universities depends on the total cash tuition receipts for these programs. The online degree programs of these 18 universities must compete with the online degree programs of the other 49 universities approved to offer online degree programs, as well as other education and training programs that are seeking to enroll students. While we are trying to enter into agreements with additional universities with respect to their online degree programs, we face competition from other service providers and may not succeed in our efforts. Our online tutoring and test preparation business competes for students with traditional in-person tutoring services and after school programs, as well as with companies providing online services similar to ours. Our English language programs compete for students with other private schools with English language programs, sister schools, online programs, after school programs and self-study programs. Our Polytechnic programs compete for students with other Chinese-foreign cooperative education programs, sister school programs, distance learning programs, self-study programs and other vocational and technical training programs. Our private primary and secondary schools compete for recruiting students with other schools in their respective areas as well as boarding schools that recruit students on a nationwide basis. There are also many new entrants seeking to participate in the education sector in China, including for-profit and not-for-profit educational institutions from overseas that are attracted by the education market in China. Although restrictive regulation of the education sector in China may have limited our competition in the past, any deregulation of this industry, or easing of restrictions on foreign participants, could increase the competition we face in one or more lines of business. Certain of our businesses face relatively low barriers to entry, which could result in even greater competitive pressure and potential loss of market share in the future. Our online tutoring business and international curriculum program business are characterized by relatively low start-up and fixed costs, modest capital requirements, short start-up lead times and a limited need for significant proprietary technology. As a result, potential market entrants, both in China and from abroad, face relatively low entry barriers to these markets. The online tutoring business requires relatively small amounts of capital and technological capabilities to enter. Similarly, other international programs similar to our international curriculum programs could be initiated by one or more competitors in 8 Table of Contents cooperation with international partners. In addition, as the existing penetration rates of these lines of business are relatively low in our markets, competitors could acquire significant numbers of customers and establish significant market share within a relatively short period. For example, we incurred an impairment charge during the year ended December 31, 2008 of RMB68.2 million ($10.0 million) related to our international curriculum program, and we expect the future operating results of our FEC program and our recent partnership with Howe Sound Secondary School to provide English language instruction, which we refer to as our SCC program, to be adversely affected as a result of increasing competition, government regulation, lower student enrollments and lower per student amounts payable to us under our contractual arrangements with participating schools. Increased competition could result in loss of market share and revenue and lower profit margins, which would in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have not received permanent approval to operate our learning centers and our strategy to develop a nationwide network of learning centers will involve substantial costs and may not succeed. In February 2007, we received provisional approval from the MOE to operate 10 learning centers in the provinces of Beijing, Shanghai, and Jiangsu and Zhejiang for a trial period of up to 18 months. Although this provisional approval has since expired, the MOE has not ordered us to terminate operations at these 10 learning centers, although no assurance can be given that the MOE will not. We have also obtained provincial licenses from the Beijing, Shanghai, and Jiangsu provinces, as well informal approval from the Zhejiang province, to operate a total of 17 learning centers, including the 10 that received provisional approval from the MOE in February 2007. We have also entered into agreements to establish three cooperative learning centers in the provinces of Jilin, Hainan, and Guangdong. Although these learning centers are not branded under the ChinaEdu name, we derive revenue from them by contributing significantly to their operations. In addition to the 20 learning centers discussed above, we have also entered into agreements with 32 third party learning centers pursuant to which we provide assistance applying for approval from provincial level education authorities as well as securing additional university online degree programs. In return, we receive a percentage of the tuition earned by these third party learning centers. Our strategy to operate learning centers involves various risks and may not succeed. These risks include those related to operating a new business in which we do not have significant experience. To be successful in operating learning centers we will have to obtain new contracts on acceptable terms with the university online degree programs, all of which already have existing relationships with learning centers. We will also have to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses and devote substantial time and other resources to establish and staff these new learning centers. In addition to the risks of entering a new line of business, we also face regulatory risks relating to our plan to expand the scope of our approval to a national scope with an unlimited number of learning centers and to convert our provisional licenses to permanent approvals. Moreover, even in the event we are able to successfully obtain MOE approval to operate learning centers in additional provinces, we will still need to obtain approval from the relevant provincial level education authorities before we are able to establish any new learning center, and there are risks relating to our ability to obtain such provincial level approvals. Any one of these risks could cause our expansion into the learning center business to be delayed or unsuccessful and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to attract and retain customers is heavily dependent on our reputation, which in turn relies on our maintaining a high level of service quality. We need to continue to provide high quality services to our existing customers to maintain and enhance our reputation, and we also need to attract and retain customers for our various lines of business. All of our business lines are highly dependent on existing and potential students perceiving our programs as high quality and worth the investment of time and money that they require of students. If any of the programs we operate or support experience service quality problems, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on our senior management team and key personnel, and the loss of any of their services could severely disrupt our business. Our future success is highly dependent on the ongoing efforts of our senior management and other key personnel. We rely heavily on their management skills, expertise in the education sector, strategy and marketing skills, as well as the relationships they have with many of the educational institutions with which we do business, and with local and national regulatory authorities. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our senior executives or other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for senior executives and other key personnel in China, such as personnel engaged in software and system development, is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is very limited. As a result, we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or other key personnel, or attract and retain senior executives or other key personnel in the future. In addition, if any member of our senior management or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, business partners, key professionals and staff members to them. Each of our senior executives and key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. In the event of a dispute between any of our senior executives or other key personnel and us, however, we cannot assure you as to the extent, if any, that these provisions may be enforceable in China due to uncertainties involving the Chinese legal system. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully execute future acquisitions or efficiently manage the businesses we have acquired to date or may acquire in the future. Since 2005, we have entered several new lines of business through the acquisition of existing businesses or contractual rights. We may continue to expand, in part, by acquiring complementary businesses. The success of our past acquisitions and any future acquisitions will depend upon several factors, including: · our ability to identify and acquire businesses on a cost-effective basis; · our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively; · our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and to retain the customers of the acquired businesses; · unanticipated problems or legal liabilities of the acquired businesses; and · tax or accounting issues relating to the acquired businesses. Any acquisition may require a significant commitment of management time, capital investment and other resources. For example, our entry into the private primary and secondary school business, which includes our Anqing Foreign Language School (the “Anqing School”), Pingdingshan Wellent Bilingual School (the “Pingdingshan School”) and Jingzhou School (Southern Campus), has required us to invest significant amounts for the acquisition of the rights to operate these schools and for expanding facilities and upgrading the services offered by these schools. In the case of the Anqing School, we had outstanding capital commitments of approximately RMB38.2 million as of December 31, 2008 associated with acquisition of the Anqing School. In addition, during the fiscal year ended 2008, we completed Phase I construction of a new campus at the Anqing School and commenced Phase II construction, which we expect to be completed by the fall of 2009. We anticipate that the additional capital expenditures associated with the construction at the Anqing School will be approximately RMB83.0 million. In the case of the Pingdingshan School, we acquired all of the rights and interests in the school in 2005. As of December 31, 2008, we have no outstanding capital commitments associated its acquisition, although we are currently in the process of constructing a new building and making related facility improvements. We anticipate that the remaining capital expenditures associated with such construction and facility improvements will be approximately RMB4.4 million. In the case of the Jingzhou School (Southern Campus), we initially planned to complete construction of a new campus by the fall 2006 recruiting season, although we have encountered delays obtaining land-use rights for the new campus site as well as delays due to inclement weather experienced in early 2008. Because of these ongoing delays and the uncertainty as to when they will be resolved, we had outstanding capital commitments of approximately RMB64.8 million as of December 31, 2008 associated with acquisition of the Jingzhou School (Southern Campus). In addition, we anticipate that our remaining capital expenditures associated with construction of the new campus will be approximately RMB4.0 million. Delays completing construction of the new campus at Jingzhou School (Southern Campus) have adversely affected revenue from this investment, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to begin construction in time for the fall 2009 recruiting season, or at all. If we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate any acquired business, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we use our equity securities as consideration for acquisitions, the value of your ordinary shares or ADSs may be diluted. If we are unable to attract and locate qualified personnel for our various programs, in particular qualified educators, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Each of our lines of business is highly dependent on the ability to attract qualified educators to provide services in connection with our programs and the programs we support. The success of our programs and the programs we support, and the differentiating factor between our programs and those of the traditional education sector in China, rely significantly on the quality of the educators we are able to attract to such programs. For example: · the online degree programs that we serve rely to a significant degree on professors to prepare the online courseware; · our international post-secondary programs rely on capable instructors within participating colleges to take part in the training by the overseas post-secondary institutions; · our online tutoring program needs to attract tutors who are perceived to be successful in preparing students for examinations; · our private primary and secondary schools need to attract qualified and experienced teachers and administrators; and · we need to find well-qualified native English speakers to teach in the English language programs and the international post-secondary programs that we support and the private primary and secondary schools operated by our Chinese affiliated entities. 10 Table of Contents There are considerable challenges in locating and attracting the personnel we need. There is considerable competition in China to attract strong educators. To the extent we have focused our market for English language programs, international post-secondary education programs and our private primary and secondary schools in second tier cities, we also face challenges in attracting teachers from overseas who are willing to relocate to areas in which there are few, if any, expatriates and the living conditions are markedly different from their home countries. If we are unable to attract and locate well-qualified educators for the various programs, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are not able to respond successfully to technological or industry developments, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The market for providing services to educational institutions for their online degree programs and the market for online tutoring services are relatively new. These markets are characterized by rapid technological developments, the introduction of new business models, launches of new products and services and changes in customer needs and behavior. For example, the delivery of online degree programs in China is still relatively new and the evolution of these programs from relatively rudimentary systems for delivery of course content to more robust interactive models is taking place on an ongoing basis. As high speed Internet connections become available for more potential users, the expectations of students for online degree programs are likely to require continued devotion of our research and development efforts to maintain our position as a perceived market leader in providing technology services to online degree programs. Our online tutoring programs will likewise face expectations from students for a more stimulating and interactive environment commensurate with their other online experiences. Innovation by our competitors in China and overseas may make our existing services to online degree programs and our online tutoring programs obsolete or less competitive. To respond to these types of developments, we may be required to undertake substantial efforts and incur significant costs. If we do not successfully respond to these types of developments in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business may be materially and adversely affected. All of the servers used to support our business operations are currently hosted in the same location in Beijing. We do not have a backup location, so we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate if our server location suffers from the effects of fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, war, terrorist acts or similar events. Any of these events could give rise to server interruptions, breakdowns, system failures, technology platform failures and Internet failures, which could cause the loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware. These types of events could adversely affect our ability to provide our services to online degree programs and our online tutoring program and adversely affect our operations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—C. Research and Development, Patents and Licenses, Etc.—Technology.” If we are unable to achieve or maintain economies of scale with respect to our various lines of business, our results of operations from these businesses may be materially and adversely affected. Each of our lines of business involves a degree of upfront investment in the development of programs or the acquisition of contract rights to provide services to programs, and our revenue and profitability depend on the number of students in these programs. The online degree programs to which we provide support and services, and from which we derive most of our revenue and profits, require considerable investments of time and resources to develop. In many cases, these online degree programs also require that we make substantial investments in collaborative alliances, which are the majority owned entities that we form with certain of our university partners to provide services to their online degree programs, as well as provide advance payments to the universities to attract university partners. The profitability of these programs for us depends on the ability of the programs to attract students. Similarly, our revenue from our online tutoring programs, international programs, and private primary and secondary schools depends on our attracting enough students on an ongoing basis. If the programs or schools are unable to recruit enough students to offset the development and operating costs, our results of operations will be adversely affected. The demand for our online tutoring services may be impacted by parental concern of children spending too much time on online gaming and other non-educational online activities. Parents and government officials in China have expressed concern that school age children are spending too much time on the Internet playing online games and engaging in other non-productive online activities. As a result, parents may not be supportive of buying computers and other computer resources or Internet access for their children, and this could adversely affect online education programs such as our online tutoring programs. This attitude could adversely affect our ability to expand enrollment in our online tutoring programs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to prevent others from using our intellectual property or if we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims by others, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our intellectual property has been and will continue to be subject to various forms of infringement, theft and misappropriation. We are also susceptible to others copying our business model and methods. Our courseware and course materials have significant value and could be copied. We devote substantial resources to the development of platform support and courseware for online degree programs, the course materials and systems support for our online tutoring program, and implementation of the Polytechnic programs and the English language programs we support. The legal protection of intellectual property in China is significantly more limited than in the United States and many other countries and may afford us little or no effective protection. 11 Table of Contents In addition, we also could face potential claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, with regard to the intellectual property rights to courseware used in online programs from which we derive service revenue, the professors who assisted in developing the courseware could claim that they have rights to such courseware. If such claims are brought against us or the universities conducting the online degree programs, or if we are required to bring litigation to protect our intellectual property, we could face expensive litigation that could divert management resources and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our university customers may be liable for refunds to students, which could adversely affect our revenue. Most university online degree programs require students to pre-pay for a set number of courses at the outset of their enrollment; however, these students may not enroll in all of these courses in the same period for which they have prepaid tuition. We receive service fees from each university for technology and support services that we render to our university customers during a given semester to support their online degree programs. Our contracts are typically structured so that our service fees are based upon the cash tuition receipts of the university during a given semester. To the extent students request that the universities refund any unused prepaid tuition, our revenue could be adversely affected because the universities are entitled to deduct these refunds from the cash receipts upon which our fees are based. In 2008, the average refund rate, which is refund expressed as a percentage of cash receipts, of the university online degree programs that we service was 1%. Increases in this rate could increase our revenue volatility and adversely affect the profitability of our services. We rely heavily on our information systems, and if we fail to further develop our technology, or if our systems contain “bugs” or other undetected errors, our operations may be seriously disrupted. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our technology and our use of information that is available within our online systems. This may require us to acquire additional equipment and software and to develop new applications within our online systems. Our success in the development of new service offerings, such as community features and improved student management systems, depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information. Our online systems and the technology platform upon which online degree programs operate, and our other databases, products and systems could contain undetected errors or “bugs” that could adversely affect their performance. In addition, our systems supporting online degree programs and online tutoring programs occasionally experience peak demands during which they are unable to provide the responsiveness expected by students enrolled in these programs. If we encounter errors or other service quality or reliability issues, or if we are unable to design, develop, implement and utilize information systems and the data derived from these systems, our ability to realize our strategic objectives and our profitability could be adversely affected, and this may cause us to lose market share, harm our reputation and brand names, and materially and adversely affect our business. The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and telecommunications networks in China. Our services to online degree programs and our online tutoring program depend on the performance and reliability of China’s Internet infrastructure. In China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of China’s Ministry of Information Industry, or the MII. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the Chinese government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a user in China can connect to the Internet. We cannot assure you that a more sophisticated Internet infrastructure will be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. In addition, China’s Internet infrastructure may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. We rely on China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom, and China Network Communications Corporation, or China Netcom, to provide us with data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines and their Internet data centers that host our servers. We do not have access to alternative services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with the fixed telecommunications networks of China Telecom and China Netcom, or if China Telecom or China Netcom otherwise fail to provide such services. Any unscheduled service interruption could damage our reputation and result in a decrease in our revenue. Furthermore, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by China Telecom and China Netcom. If the prices that we pay for telecommunications and Internet services increase significantly, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if Internet access fees or other charges to Internet users increase, the users of our online tutoring services may find our services less affordable, which may in turn reduce our revenue. Computer viruses and “hacking” may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce use of our services and damage our reputation and brand names. Our online degree program platforms contain substantial information about students, their attendance and performance, and the administration of the entire student life cycle from enrollment to graduation. As such, these online systems and records may become attractive targets for either dissatisfied students, or hackers in general, who seek to access and modify records maintained on these systems, or to disrupt the online degree programs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions, loss or corruption of data, hardware or other computer equipment. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation. Hacking and computer 12 Table of Contents viruses could result in significant damage to our systems and databases, disruptions to our business activities, including to our e-mail and other communications systems, breaches of security and the inadvertent disclosure of confidential or sensitive information, interruptions in access to our website and the websites for online degree programs and our online tutoring programs, and other material adverse effects on our operations. We may incur significant costs to protect our systems and equipment against the threat of, and to repair any damage caused by, computer viruses and hacking. Moreover, if a computer virus or hacking affects our systems and is highly publicized, our reputation could be materially damaged and usage of our services may decrease. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company prior to our initial public offering in December 2007. Moreover, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ have imposed additional requirements on corporate governance practices of public companies, including Section 404 relating to internal control over financial reporting. These rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. It may also be difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors due to increased risks of liability to our directors under the new rules and regulations. Although our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition reflected in our consolidated financial statements include all expenses allocable to our business, because of the additional administrative and financial obligations associated with operating as a publicly traded company, they may not be indicative of the results of operations that we would have achieved had we operated as a public entity for all periods presented or of future results that we may achieve as a publicly traded company with our current holding company structure. Such variations may be material to our business. Risks Related to China’s Regulation of the Education and Telecommunication Sectors and Our Corporate Structure If the Chinese authorities determine that our organizational structure for operating our business does not comply with Chinese regulations, we could be subject to sanctions, including being required to discontinue all or a portion of our business. We and our Chinese subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign invested enterprises under Chinese laws, and, as a result, we are required to comply with Chinese laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment, including those restricting foreign participation in the education and telecommunications industries. For example, foreign entities that are not educational institutions, such as our company, cannot operate schools or education programs in China, and all foreign persons, including foreign educational institutions, are precluded from operating primary and middle schools in China, such as our private primary and secondary schools. Similarly, there are limitations on the ability of foreign parties such as our company and our Chinese subsidiaries with regard to owning Internet content provider, or ICP, licenses, which are necessary for the operation of our corporate website and the website for our online tutoring business. Because of these restrictions, we have developed a corporate structure in which we do not have an ownership interest in the entities involved in activities in which foreign entities’ and foreign invested enterprises’ participation is prohibited, and we function as a service provider to Chinese universities with respect to their online degree programs. For a discussion of the limitations on foreign ownership and participation governing our businesses, see “Item 