ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following adverse developments described in the following risk factors could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital Currently, we have no products approved for commercial sale, and to date we have not generated any revenue from product sales. As a result, our ability to curtail our losses and reach profitability is unproven, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. In 2013, we generated $84.8 million of net income, primarily due to the Valeant settlement, but do not expect to be profitable in the foreseeable future. Prior to 2013, we had incurred net losses in each year since our inception, including net losses of approximately, $56.1 million and $47.9 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively.As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $130.4 million. We have devoted most of our financial resources to research and development, including our preclinical development activities and clinical trials, and commenced planning for commercialization of tavaborole. We have not completed development of any product candidate and we have therefore not generated any revenues from product sales. We expect that both sales and marketing and research and development expenses will increase in the future as we progress our product candidates through clinical development into the commercialization stage, conduct our research and development activities under our various current and potential collaborations, including those related to our neglected diseases initiatives, advance our discovery research projects into the preclinical stage and continue our early-stage research. As a result of the foregoing, after generating net income in 2013 from the Valeant settlement, we expect to continue to experience net losses and negative cash flows for the foreseeable future. These losses and negative cash flows have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. 31 Table of Contents Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to accurately predict the timing or amount of our expenses or when, or if, we will be able to maintain profitability. In addition, our expenses could increase if we are required by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to perform studies in addition to, or that are larger than, those that we currently expect. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities, debt arrangements, government contracts and grants and payments under our agreements with GlaxoSmithKline LLC (GSK), Schering Corporation (Schering), Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly), Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation (Medicis), the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (the Gates Foundation) and the United States Department of Defense, Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) and our arbitration settlement with Valeant. The size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on our future expenses and our ability to generate revenues. Revenues from our collaborations and research agreements with GSK, Lilly, the Gates Foundation and DTRA are uncertain because milestones or other contingent payments under our agreements with them may not be achieved or received. In addition, we may not be able to enter into other collaborations that will generate significant cash. If we are unable to develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, or if revenues from any product candidate that receives marketing approval are insufficient, we will not achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. We have a limited operating history and we expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our operations to date have been primarily limited to developing our technology and undertaking preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates and we are reliant on collaborators for certain of our other products. We have not yet obtained regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates. Consequently, any predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history and/or approved products on the market. Our financial condition and operating results have varied significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors relating to our business that may contribute to these fluctuations include the following risk factors, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: •the need to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for tavaborole, for which we filed a New Drug Application (NDA) in July 2013, and which was accepted for filing by the FDA in September 2013 with a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) V goal date of July 29, 2014, AN2728 or any of our other product candidates; •competition from existing products or new products that may emerge. For example, in January 2014, Valeant announced that it had resubmitted its NDA for efinaconazole, a potential treatment for onychomycosis, to the FDA in December 2013 and anticipates approval in mid-2014. Efinaconazole received Health Canada regulatory approval in October 2013; •our dependency on third-party manufacturers to supply or manufacture our products; •our ability to establish an effective sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure in a timely manner; •market acceptance of our product candidates; •delays in the commencement, enrollment and the timing of clinical testing for our product candidates, including our planned Phase 3 trials of AN2728 in mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis, for which we held an End of Phase 2 meeting with the FDA in the first quarter of 2014 and expect to initiate Phase 3 studies in the first half of 2014; •the success of our clinical trials through all phases of clinical development; 32 Table of Contents •any delays in regulatory review and approval of product candidates in clinical development; •potential side effects of our product candidates that could delay or prevent commercialization or cause an approved drug to be taken off the market; •our ability to develop systemic product candidates; •the ability of patients or healthcare providers to obtain coverage of or sufficient reimbursement for our products; •our ability to obtain additional funding to develop our product candidates; •our ability to receive approval and commercialize our product candidates outside of the United States; •our ability to establish or maintain collaborations, licensing or other arrangements; •our ability and third parties' abilities to protect intellectual property rights; •costs related to and outcomes of potential litigation; •our ability to adequately support future growth; •our ability to attract and retain key personnel to manage our business effectively; •our ability to maintain our accounting systems and controls; •potential product liability claims; •potential liabilities associated with hazardous materials; and •our ability to maintain adequate insurance policies. Due to the various factors mentioned above, and others, the results of any quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of future operating performance. We may continue to require substantial additional capital and if we are unable to raise capital when needed, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs. Developing and obtaining approval for pharmaceutical products, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and obtaining sufficient data for regulatory approval and commencing commercialization is expensive. If the FDA requires that we perform additional studies beyond those that we currently expect, our expenses could increase beyond what we currently anticipate and the timing of any potential product approval may be delayed. We raised $21.5 million, $24.0 million and $23.0 million in February 2012, October 2012 and May 2013, respectively, through public offerings of our common stock. The net proceeds from these offerings were approximately $19.9 million, $22.6 million and $21.3 million, respectively, after deducting the underwriting discounts and other offering costs. Under our January 2013 "at-the-market" stock offering, through December 31, 2013, we sold shares of our common stock for net proceeds of approximately $1.3 million and we currently have approximately $23.6 million potentially remaining available for sale under this offering. In April 2013, we sold shares of our common stock for net proceeds of approximately $5.0 million to the Gates Foundation as part of our research collaboration with Gates. Beyond the $5.0 million of additional debt drawdowns under our debt facility with Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc. and Hercules Technology III, L.P (together, Hercules), which is available upon the FDA approval of tavaborole, we have no other commitments or arrangements for any additional financing to fund our research and development programs other than through the research agreement with DTRA; reimbursements from our various collaborations related to our neglected diseases initiatives, including from our Gates Foundation collaboration; and contingent milestone or royalty payments from GSK or Lilly, which we may not receive. In October 2013, we signed a settlement agreement with Valeant in which we received 33 Table of Contents $142.5 million in November 2013. We believe that our existing capital resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. While we believe that we currently have sufficient resources to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months, we may need to raise additional capital to complete the development and potential commercialization of tavaborole, fund our other research and development activities and meet our operating requirements beyond the next twelve months. Furthermore, any delays in, or unanticipated costs for, our development and regulatory efforts could significantly increase the amount of additional capital required for us to conduct these research, development and commercialization activities and meet our operating requirements beyond the next twelve months. However, our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results, including the costs to maintain our currently planned operations, could vary materially. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue from our products, if ever, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts and may not be able to make scheduled debt payments on a timely basis or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. We may seek to access the public or private capital markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Our forecasts regarding the period of time that our existing capital resources will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements, the timing of our future capital resource requirements, both near and long-term, will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •the outcome, timing and cost of regulatory approvals, including the tavaborole NDA that we filed in July 2013, which was accepted for filing by the FDA in September 2013 with a PDUFA V goal date of July 29, 2014; •the effects of competing technological and market developments. For example, in January 2014, Valeant announced that it had resubmitted its NDA for efinaconazole, a potential treatment for onychomycosis, to the FDA in December 2013 and anticipates approval in mid-2014. Efinaconazole received Health Canada regulatory approval in October 2013; •the cost and timing of completion of commercial-scale outsourced manufacturing activities; •the cost of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for tavaborole and any other product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval; •the initiation, progress, timing, costs and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials for our product candidates and potential product candidates, including the planned Phase 3 clinical trials for AN2728; •the success of our collaborations and research agreements with GSK, Lilly, the Gates Foundation and DTRA and the attainment of milestones and royalty payments, if any, under those agreements; •the number and characteristics of product candidates that we pursue; 34 Table of Contents •the terms and timing of any future collaboration, licensing or other arrangements that we may establish; •the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and •the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies. Raising funds through lending arrangements may restrict our operations or produce other adverse results. Our current loan and security agreement with Hercules, which we entered into in June 2013, contains a variety of affirmative and negative covenants, including required financial reporting, limitations on certain dispositions of assets, limitations on the incurrence of additional debt and other requirements. To secure our performance of our obligations under this loan and security agreement, we granted a security interest in substantially all of our assets, other than intellectual property assets, to the lenders. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the loan and security agreement, the occurrence of a material impairment in our prospect of repayment or in the perfection or priority of the lenders' lien on our assets, as determined by the lenders, or the occurrence of certain other specified events could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt, potential foreclosure on our assets and other adverse results. Risks Relating to the Development, Regulatory Approval and Commercialization of Our Product Candidates We cannot be certain that tavaborole, AN2728 or any of our other wholly-owned or partnered product candidates will receive regulatory approval, and without regulatory approval our product candidates will not be able to be marketed. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of our most advanced product candidates, especially tavaborole. Our ability to generate significant revenue related to product sales will depend on the successful development and regulatory approval of our product candidates. In August 2010, we filed a Special Protocol Assessment request with the FDA and reached agreement on the major parameters associated with the design and conduct of the Phase 3 trials for tavaborole. We commenced Phase 3 clinical trials of tavaborole in the fourth quarter of 2010, and completed enrollment in December 2011. In the first quarter of 2013, we announced the results from two clinical trials in which tavaborole met all primary and secondary endpoints with a high degree of statistical significance. We filed an NDA for tavaborole in July 2013, which was accepted for filing by the FDA in September 2013 with a PDUFA V goal date of July 29, 2014. We had an End of Phase 2 meeting with the FDA for AN2728 in atopic dermatitis in the first quarter of 2014 and expect to initiate Phase 3 studies in atopic dermatitis in the first half of 2014. We may conduct lengthy and expensive Phase 3 clinical trials of AN2728 only to learn that this drug candidate is not a safe or effective treatment, in which case these clinical trials may not lead to regulatory approval. Similarly, GSK's development of our partnered product candidate in TB and Lilly's development program for our partnered animal health product candidate may be subject to delays in development and not lead to regulatory approval from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. Such failure to timely develop and obtain regulatory approvals would prevent our product candidates from being marketed and would have a material and adverse effect on our business. We currently have no products approved for sale and we cannot guarantee that we will ever have marketable products. The development of a product candidate, including preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, quality systems, labeling, approval, record-keeping, selling, promotion, marketing and 35 Table of Contents distribution of products, is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and regulatory authorities in other countries, with regulations differing from country to country. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA. Obtaining approval of an NDA is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. An NDA must include extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to establish the product candidate's safety and effectiveness for each indication. The approval application must also include significant information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing and controls for the product. The regulatory development and review process typically takes years to complete and approval is never guaranteed. If a product is approved, the FDA may limit the indications for which the product may be used, include extensive warnings on the product labeling or require costly ongoing requirements for post-marketing clinical studies and surveillance or other risk management measures to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product candidate. Markets outside of the United States also have requirements for approval of drug candidates with which we must comply prior to marketing. Obtaining regulatory approval for marketing of a product candidate in one country does not ensure we will be able to obtain regulatory approval in other countries but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in other countries. Any regulatory approval of any of our products or product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. If tavaborole, AN2728 or any of our other wholly-owned or partnered product candidates do not receive regulatory approval, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable or to continue our operations. Moreover, the filing of our NDA or the receipt of regulatory approval does not assure commercial success of any approved product. Delays in the commencement, enrollment and completion of clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. Delays in the commencement, enrollment and completion of clinical trials could increase our product development costs or limit the regulatory approval of our product candidates. We had an End of Phase 2 meeting with the FDA for AN2728 in atopic dermatitis in the first quarter of 2014 and expect to initiate Phase 3 studies in atopic dermatitis in the first half of 2014. We do not know whether clinical trials of AN2728 or other product candidates will begin on time or, if commenced, will be completed on schedule or at all. The commencement, enrollment and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: •inability to reach agreements on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations (CROs) and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; •regulatory objections to commencing a clinical trial; •inability to identify and maintain a sufficient number of trial sites, many of which may already be engaged in other clinical trial programs, including some that may be for the same indication as our product candidates; •withdrawal of clinical trial sites from our clinical trials as a result of changing standards of care or the ineligibility of a site to participate in our clinical trials; •inability to obtain institutional review board (IRB) approval to conduct a clinical trial at prospective sites; •difficulty recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including meeting the enrollment criteria for our study and competition from other clinical trial programs for the same indication as our product candidates; and 36 Table of Contents •inability to retain patients in clinical trials due to the treatment protocol, personal issues, side effects from the therapy or lack of efficacy, particularly for those patients receiving either a vehicle without the active ingredient or a placebo. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, our current or any future partners, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: •failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; •failed inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; •unforeseen safety or efficacy issues or any determination that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; or •lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial due to unforeseen costs resulting from enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies, increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties or other reasons. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those currently contemplated, we may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, marketing approval for these product candidates. In addition, if our current or any future partners assume development of our product candidates, they may suspend or terminate their development and commercialization efforts, including clinical trials for our product candidates, at any time. For example, in September 2013, Lilly notified us that it was ceasing further development of the development compound licensed in August 2011for an animal health indication and has granted us a fully paid, sublicenseable, perpetual, irrevocable, exclusive license to the related technology and patents. Similarly, GSK discontinued clinical development of AN3365 in October 2012 and all rights to AN3365 have reverted to us. We have not yet determined if we will proceed with any further development of these molecules. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we or any partners may be required by appropriate regulatory authorities to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us or any partners to resubmit clinical trial protocols to IRBs for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we or any of our partners experience delays in the completion of, or if we or our partners terminate clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate revenue from sales of our products will be prevented or delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials ultimately may lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of clinical development. Because the results of earlier clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, any product candidate we, GSK, Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi) the Gates Foundation, DTRA or our potential future partners advance through clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of our clinical development. Clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we or our partners may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical or preclinical testing. In addition, data obtained from tests are susceptible to varying interpretations, and regulators may not interpret our data as favorably as we do, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will generate the same results or otherwise provide adequate data to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of a product candidate. Frequently, product candidates that have 37 Table of Contents shown promising results in early clinical trials have subsequently suffered significant setbacks in later clinical trials. In addition, the design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well advanced. We have limited experience in designing clinical trials and may be unable to design and execute a clinical trial to support regulatory approval. Further, clinical trials of potential products often reveal that it is not practical or feasible to continue development efforts. If tavaborole, AN2728, AN5568, also referred to as SCYX-7158 for human African trypanosomiasis (HAT, or sleeping sickness), or our other product candidates are found to be unsafe or lack efficacy, we or our collaborators will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for them and our business would be harmed. For example, if the results of planned Phase 3 clinical trials of AN2728 do not achieve the primary efficacy endpoints and demonstrate an acceptable safety level, the prospects for approval of AN2728 would be materially and adversely affected. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including those with greater resources and experience than us, have suffered significant setbacks in Phase 3 clinical trials, even after seeing promising results in earlier clinical trials. In some instances, there can be significant variability in safety and/or efficacy results between different trials of the same product candidate due to numerous factors, including changes in trial protocols, differences in size and type of the patient populations, adherence to the dosing regimen, particularly for self-administered topical drugs, and the rate of dropout among clinical trial participants. We do not know whether any Phase 2, Phase 3 or other clinical trials we or any partners may conduct will demonstrate consistent and/or adequate efficacy and safety to obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates. We have limited experience in conducting Phase 3 clinical trials and while our first NDA for tavaborole was accepted for filing in September 2013, we may be unable to do so for AN2728 and other product candidates we are developing. We are planning to conduct Phase 3 clinical trials of AN2728 in atopic dermatitis in the first half of 2014. The conduct of successful Phase 3 clinical trials is essential in obtaining regulatory approval and the submission of a successful NDA is a complicated process. We have limited experience in preparing, submitting and prosecuting regulatory filings. We submitted our first NDA for tavaborole in July 2013, which was accepted for filing by the FDA in September 2013 with a PDUFA V goal date of July 29, 2014. Consequently, we may be unable to obtain timely approval of our NDA or successfully and efficiently execute and complete additional planned clinical trials in a way that leads to an NDA submission, acceptance and approval of AN2728 or other product candidates we are developing. We may require more time and incur greater costs than our competitors and may not succeed in obtaining regulatory approvals of products that we develop. In addition, failure to commence or complete, or delays in, our planned clinical trials would prevent us from or delay us in commercializing AN2728 and other product candidates we are developing. Our product candidates may have undesirable side effects that may delay or prevent marketing approval, or, if approval is received, require them to be taken off the market or otherwise limit their sales. Unforeseen side effects from any of our product candidates could arise either during clinical development or, if approved, after the approved product has been marketed. For example, a small number of patients who received tavaborole treatment experienced some skin irritation around their toenails during clinical trials of tavaborole for onychomycosis. In addition, a small number of patients who received AN2728 treatment experienced some skin irritation during clinical trials of AN2728. The range and potential severity of possible side effects from systemic therapies is greater than for topically administered drugs. The results of future clinical trials may show that our product candidates cause undesirable or unacceptable side effects, which could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials, resulting in delay of, or failure to obtain, marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. 38 Table of Contents If any of our product candidates receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable or unacceptable side effects caused by such products: •regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, specific warnings, a contraindication or field alerts to physicians and pharmacies; •we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; •we may have limitations on how we promote the product; •sales of the product may decrease significantly; •regulatory authorities may require us to take our approved product off the market; •we may be subject to litigation or product liability claims; and •our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us, GSK, Lilly, the Gates Foundation, DTRA or our potential future partners from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase commercialization costs and expenses, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from the sale of our products. All of our product candidates require regulatory review and approval prior to commercialization. Any delay in the regulatory review or approval of any of our product candidates will harm our business. All of our product candidates require regulatory review and approval prior to commercialization. Any delays in the regulatory review or approval of our product candidates would delay market launch, increase our cash requirements and result in additional operating losses. In July 2013, we filed an NDA for tavaborole, which was accepted for filing by the FDA in September 2013 with a PDUFA V goal date of July 29, 2014, and our financial plans currently relate to timely approval of such NDA. Any delay in approval of our NDA may place tavaborole at a competitive disadvantage and may increase our need for additional resources, which may result in increased difficulty in raising necessary capital to support our future operations. Our success in filing the NDA for tavaborole does not mean that we will be able to submit NDAs for our other products. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Furthermore, this approval process is extremely complex, expensive and uncertain. GSK, Lilly, the Gates Foundation, DTRA or our potential future partners may be unable to submit NDAs in the United States or any marketing approval application or other foreign applications for any of our products. Upon submitting an NDA, including any amended NDA or supplemental NDA, to the FDA seeking marketing approval for any of our product candidates, the FDA must decide whether to either accept or reject the submission for filing. We cannot be certain that these submissions will be accepted for filing and review by the FDA, or that the marketing approval application submissions to any other regulatory authorities will be accepted for filing and review by those authorities. We cannot be certain that we or our partners will be able to respond to any regulatory requests during the review period in a timely manner without delaying potential regulatory action. We also cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will receive favorable recommendations from any FDA advisory committee or foreign regulatory bodies or be approved for marketing by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, delays in approvals or rejections of marketing applications may be based upon many factors, including regulatory requests for additional analyses, reports, data and studies, regulatory questions regarding data and results, changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and the emergence of new information regarding our product candidates or other products. 39 Table of Contents Data obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials are subject to different interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory review or approval of any of our product candidates. For example, as a routine part of the evaluation of any potential drug, clinical trials are generally conducted to assess the potential for drug-drug interactions (DDI) that could impact potential product safety. In February 2014, we completed a voluntary DDI study that demonstrated AN2728 does not interact with cytochrome P450 subtype 2C9, although to date, we have not been requested to perform drug-drug interaction studies by the FDA. However, if any DDI studies are required, it may delay any potential product approval and may increase the expenses associated with clinical programs. Furthermore, regulatory attitudes towards the data and results required to demonstrate safety and efficacy can change over time and can be affected by many factors, such as the emergence of new information, including on other products, policy changes and agency funding, staffing and leadership. We do not know whether future changes to the regulatory environment will be favorable or unfavorable to our business prospects. In addition, the environment in which our regulatory submissions may be reviewed changes over time. For example, average review times at the FDA for NDAs have fluctuated over the last ten years, and we cannot predict the review time for any of our submissions with any regulatory authorities. Review times can be affected by a variety of factors, including budget and funding levels and statutory, regulatory and policy changes. Moreover, in light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the Government Accounting Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and establishment of risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA to clinical trials. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to terminate clinical trials before completion, or require longer or additional clinical trials that may result in substantial additional expense, a delay or failure in obtaining approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought. Our use of boron chemistry to develop pharmaceutical product candidates is novel and may not prove successful in producing approved products. Undesirable side effects of any of our product candidates, or of boron-based drugs developed by others, may extend the time period required to obtain regulatory approval or harm market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved. All of our product development activities are centered on compounds containing boron. The use of boron chemistry to develop new drugs is largely unproven. If boron-based compounds developed by us or others have significant adverse side effects, regulatory authorities could require additional studies of our boron-based compounds, which could delay the timing of and increase the cost for regulatory approvals of our product candidates. Additionally, adverse side effects for other boron-based compounds could affect the willingness of healthcare payors and medical providers to provide reimbursement for or use our boron-based drugs and could impact market acceptance of our products. Additionally, there can be no assurance that boron-based products will be free of significant adverse side effects. During clinical trials, a small number of our patients who received tavaborole experienced some skin irritation around their toenails and a few patients who received AN2728 experienced some skin irritation in the treated areas. If boron-based drug treatments result in significant adverse side effects, they may not be useful as therapeutic agents. If we are unable to develop products that are safe and effective using our boron chemistry platform, our business will be materially and adversely affected. 40 Table of Contents If any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval do not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that are generated from their sales will be limited. The commercial success of tavaborole, AN2728, or our other product candidates will depend upon the acceptance of these products among physicians, patients, and healthcare payors. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: •limitations or warnings contained in the FDA-approved labeling for our products; •changes in the standard of care for the targeted indications for any of our product candidates; •limitations in the approved indications for our product candidates; •lower demonstrated clinical safety or efficacy compared to other products; •occurrence of significant adverse side effects; •ineffective sales, marketing and distribution support; •lack of availability of reimbursement from managed care plans and other healthcare payors; •timing of market introduction and perceived effectiveness of competitive products, including information provided in competitor products' package inserts; •lack of cost-effectiveness; •availability of alternative therapies with potentially advantageous results, or other products with similar results at similar or lower cost, including generics and over-the-counter products; •adverse publicity about our product candidates or favorable publicity about competitive products; •lack of convenience and ease of administration of our products; and •potential product liability claims. If our product candidates for human use are approved, but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, sufficient revenue may not be generated from these products, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, efforts to educate the medical community and healthcare payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. For example, Valeant, filed its NDA for efinaconazole, its topical product candidate for the treatment of onychomycosis, in July 2012, and stated that efinaconazole had a PDUFA goal date of May 24, 2013. On May 28, 2013, Valeant received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA related to its NDA for efinaconazole and estimated that it could receive approval from the FDA in mid-2014. On October 2, 2013, Valeant received one regulatory approval for efinaconazole, under the brand name Jublia, from Health Canada. In January 2014, Valeant announced that it had resubmitted its NDA for efinaconazole, a potential treatment for onychomycosis, to the FDA in December 2013 and anticipates approval in mid-2014.If approved by the FDA, efinaconazole may be the first to market in the United States with data that may be competitive with our data from tavaborole's Phase 3 studies. If efinaconazole reaches the U.S. market prior to tavaborole, the competitive position of tavaborole may be harmed significantly and the diminished value of tavaborole in such event could have a significant adverse effect on our business. Additionally, our product candidates intended for use against neglected diseases, such as AN5568 for sleeping sickness and our product candidate for tuberculosis (TB), are not expected to generate significant revenues, if any. 41 Table of Contents We have never marketed a drug before, and if we are unable to establish an effective commercial infrastructure or enter into acceptable third-party sales and marketing or licensing arrangements, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates successfully. We may develop a commercial infrastructure to market and sell our products in certain U.S. specialty markets. We currently do not have any sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, the development of which will require substantial resources and will be time consuming. We are currently evaluating the establishment of these capabilities, either internally or through third-party organizations, and these costs are expected to be incurred in advance of any approval of our product candidates. In addition to the risk and expense of establishing sales capabilities in advance of commercial launch, we may not be able to hire a commercial organization that has adequate expertise in the medical markets that we intend to target. If we are unable to establish our sales force and marketing capability, our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we plan to enter into sales and marketing or licensing arrangements with third parties for non-specialty markets in the United States and for international sales of any approved products. If we are unable to enter into any such arrangements on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to market and sell our products in these markets and the potential product revenues for our products would be reduced. We expect that our existing and future product candidates will face competition and most of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with a number of established, large pharmaceutical companies, as well as many smaller companies. Most of these companies have significant financial resources, marketing capabilities and experience in obtaining regulatory approvals for product candidates. There are many pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, public and private universities, government agencies and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of products that may target the same markets as our product candidates. We expect any future products we develop to compete on the basis of, among other things, product efficacy, price, lack of significant adverse side effects and convenience and ease of treatment. For example, tavaborole faces potential competition from Valeant's efinaconazole, which is not only potentially ahead of tavaborole in the regulatory approval process, but also would be marketed by a pharmaceutical company with significantly greater resources and commercial experience than we currently possess. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: •resources, including capital, personnel and technology; •manufacturing and distribution expertise; •sales and marketing expertise. •research and development capability; •clinical trial expertise; •regulatory expertise; •intellectual property prosecution expertise and portfolios; and •international capabilities; As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we are able to or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors also may develop drugs that are more effective, more widely used and less costly than ours and also may be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. 42 Table of Contents The dermatology and podiatry markets are competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to commercialize our dermatological product candidates. If tavaborole is approved for the treatment of onychomycosis, we anticipate that it would compete with other marketed nail fungal therapeutics including Lamisil, Sporanox, Onmel, Penlac and generic versions of those compounds. Tavaborole will also compete with lasers, which have received clearance from the FDA for the temporary increase of clear nail in patients with onychomycosis and with over-the-counter products and possibly various other devices under development for onychomycosis. If approved for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis and/or psoriasis, AN2728 will compete against a number of approved topical treatments. For mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis, competing treatments would include: combinations of antibiotics, antihistamines, topical corticosteroids and topical immunomodulators, such as Elidel (pimecrolimus) and Protopic (tacrolimus); and, for psoriasis, Taclonex (a combination of calcipotriene and the high potency corticosteroid, betamethasone dipropionate), Dovonex (calcipotriene), Tazorac (tazarotene) and generic versions, where available. AN2728 also would compete against systemic treatments for psoriasis, which include oral products such as Soriatane (acitretin), methotrexate and cyclosporine and injected biologic products such as Enbrel (etanercept), Remicade (infliximab), Stelara (ustekinumab), Simponi (golimumab) and Humira (adalimumab). A number of other treatments are used for psoriasis, including light-based treatments and non-prescription topical treatments. There are also several pharmaceutical product candidates under development that could potentially be used to treat onychomycosis and compete with tavaborole. The latest-stage development candidate is efinaconazole, a novel topical triazole that completed Phase 3 development in December 2011 and was developed by DPS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Valeant. DPS licensed efinaconazole from Kaken Pharmaceuticals in 2006. Valeant reported the results of its Phase 3 studies in November 2012. In its first study, 17.8% of patients treated with efinaconazole reached the primary endpoint of "complete cure," compared to 3.3% of patients treated with vehicle. In the second study, 15.2% of patients treated with efinaconazole reached the primary endpoint of "complete cure," compared to 5.5% of patients treated with vehicle. Valeant filed an NDA with the FDA in July 2012 and had a PDUFA goal date of May 24, 2013. On May 28, 2013, Valeant received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA related to its NDA for efinaconazole, its topical product candidate for the treatment of onychomycosis, and has estimated that it could receive approval from FDA in mid-2014. On October 2, 2013, Valeant received one regulatory approval for efinaconazole, under the brand name Jublia, from Health Canada. In January 2014, Valeant announced that it had resubmitted its NDA for efinaconazole, a potential treatment for onychomycosis, to the FDA in December 2013 and anticipates approval in mid-2014. The success of efinaconazole would be expected to decrease the value of tavaborole. There are several companies pursuing various devices for onychomycosis, including laser technology. For example, at least four lasers have received FDA clearance for the treatment of onychomycosis. In addition, there are a number of earlier stage therapeutics and devices in various stages of development for the treatment of onychomycosis. For example, 10% Luliconazole Solution from Topica Pharmaceuticals, Inc., is currently in a Phase 2b/3 clinical trial to evaluate efficacy and safety of two different dosing regimens. Even if a generic product or an over-the-counter product is less effective than our product candidates, a less effective generic or over-the-counter product may be more quickly adopted by health insurers and patients than our competing product candidates based upon cost or convenience. In addition, each of our product candidates may compete against product candidates currently under development by other companies. 43 Table of Contents Reimbursement decisions by healthcare payors may have an adverse effect on pricing and market acceptance. If there is not sufficient reimbursement for our products, it is less likely that our products will be widely used. Successful commercialization of pharmaceutical products usually depends on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from healthcare payors. Patients or healthcare providers who purchase drugs generally rely on healthcare payors to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with such products. Adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and commercial payors, such as HMOs and insurance companies, can be essential to new product acceptance. Current treatments for onychomycosis are often not reimbursed by healthcare payors. Only generic formulations of current treatments are generally reimbursed by healthcare payors. We do not know the extent to which tavaborole will be reimbursed if it is approved. Reimbursement decisions by healthcare payors may have an effect on pricing and market acceptance. Our other product candidates, such as AN2728, also will be subject to uncertain reimbursement decisions by healthcare payors. Our products are less likely to be used if they do not receive adequate reimbursement. The market for our product candidates may depend on access to healthcare payors' drug formularies, or lists of medications for which healthcare payors provide coverage and reimbursement. Industry competition to be included in such formularies results in downward pricing pressures on pharmaceutical companies. Healthcare payors may refuse to include a particular branded drug in their formularies when a competing generic product is available. All healthcare payors, whether governmental or commercial, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for medicines exists among all these payors. Therefore, coverage of and reimbursement for drugs can differ significantly from payor to payor and can be difficult and costly to obtain. Virtually all countries regulate or set the prices of pharmaceutical products, which is a separate determination from whether a particular product will be subject to reimbursement under that government's health plans. There are systems for reimbursement and pricing approval in each country and moving a product through those systems is time consuming and expensive. Healthcare policy changes, including the Healthcare Reform Act, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively, the Healthcare Reform Act, substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. We anticipate that if we obtain approval for our products, some of our revenue may be derived from United States government healthcare programs, including Medicare. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Act imposes a non-deductible excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell "branded prescription drugs," which includes innovator drugs and biologics (excluding orphan drugs or generics) to U.S. government programs. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on development projects. In addition to the Healthcare Reform Act, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and healthcare payors to keep these costs down while 44 Table of Contents expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for any products that are approved or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or healthcare payors or may increase the tax requirements for life sciences companies such as ours. While it is too early to predict what effect the recently enacted Healthcare Reform Act or any future legislation or regulation will have on us, such laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We currently expect that a portion of the market for our products will be outside the United States. Our product candidates may never receive approval or be commercialized outside of the United States. We plan to enter into sales and marketing arrangements with third parties for international sales of any approved products. To market and commercialize any product candidates outside of the United States, we or any third parties that are marketing or selling our products must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding failure to obtain FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks such as pricing of the product, that will likely require negotiations with foreign governments or agencies of such governments prior to commercialization in these other countries. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. In addition, regulatory approval often involves further efforts to obtain adequate pricing or reimbursement from regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, regulatory and pricing and reimbursement risks include the possibility that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, or at all, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and have an adverse effect on product sales and potential royalties, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly post-marketing follow-up studies. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, we may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if regulatory approval is obtained for any of our product candidates, regulatory authorities may still impose significant restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. Given the number of high profile adverse safety events with certain drug products, regulatory authorities may require, as a condition of approval, costly risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, which may include safety surveillance, restricted distribution and use, patient education, enhanced labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, pre-approval of promotional materials and restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising. For example, any labeling approved for any of our product candidates may include a restriction on the term of its use, or it may not include one or more of our intended indications. Furthermore, any new legislation addressing drug safety issues could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, as well as increased costs to assure compliance with any new post-approval regulatory requirements. Any of these restrictions or requirements could force us or our partners to conduct costly studies. Our product candidates also will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers' facilities are required to comply with extensive FDA requirements, including ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to current Good Manufacturing Practices 45 Table of Contents (cGMP). As such, we and our contract manufacturers are subject to continual review and periodic inspections to assess compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, we and others with whom we work must continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production and quality control. We also will be required to report certain adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to the FDA and to comply with certain requirements concerning advertising and promotion for our products. Promotional communications with respect to prescription drugs are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions and must be consistent with the information in the product's approved label. As such, we may not promote our products for indications or uses for which they do not have approval. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured or disagrees with the promotion, marketing or labeling of a product, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: •issue warning letters; •mandate modifications to promotional materials or require us to provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners; •require us or our partners to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance; •impose other civil or criminal penalties; •suspend regulatory approval; •suspend any ongoing clinical trials; •refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us, our partners or our potential future partners; •impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or •seize or detain products or require a product recall. We are also subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which we may commercialize our products. The FFDCA, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including preclinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. These statutes and regulations include Anti-Kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical companies on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting identified common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. 46 Table of Contents Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the company's marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. Pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have also been prosecuted on other legal theories of Medicare fraud. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and federal false claims laws that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a company's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Several states now require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and prohibit or require reporting of the provision of gifts, meals and entertainment to individual healthcare providers. Other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies. In addition, California requires pharmaceutical companies to implement a comprehensive compliance program that includes a limit on expenditures for, or payments to, individual medical or health professionals. We have adopted a comprehensive compliance program that we believe satisfies the California law. Several additional states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of available statutory and regulatory exemptions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and federal false claims laws, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (HITECH) and its implementing regulations, also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. State and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. Federal "sunshine" laws require transparency regarding financial arrangements with health care providers, such as the reporting and disclosure requirements imposed by the PPACA on drug manufacturers regarding any "transfer of value" made or distributed to prescribers and other health care providers. If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including criminal and significant civil penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion of products from reimbursement under United States federal or state healthcare programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with these laws may prove costly. 47 Table of Contents We may contract with a contract sales organization that employs the sales representatives who promote our drug products. However, we expect that government and regulatory agencies will hold us responsible for any actions by such sales representatives or sales organizations. If we or our contract sales organization fails to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable United States. and foreign regulatory authorities or if previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we and our partners could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. Current healthcare laws and regulations and future legislative or regulatory reforms to the healthcare system may affect our ability to profitably sell any products that we may develop. The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering, or have enacted, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payers in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. In March 2010, PPACA became law in the United States. PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the pharmaceutical industry. Among the provisions of PPACA of importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: •an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs; •an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, retroactive to January 1, 2010, to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; •a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; •extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; •expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability; •expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; •new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, as defined in PPACA and its implementing regulations, including reporting any "transfer of value" made or distributed to teaching hospitals, prescribers and other healthcare providers, and reporting any ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members and applicable group purchasing organizations during the preceding calendar year, with data collection to be required beginning August 1, 2013 and reporting to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to be required by March 31, 2014 and by the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year; 48 Table of Contents •a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; •expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers and enhanced penalties for noncompliance; •a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; and •a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since PPACA was enacted. In August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (ATRA) which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations. We anticipate that PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and an additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product, and could seriously harm our business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. Insurers may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payers will reimburse for any newly-approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. We also cannot be certain that tavaborole or any products that may result from our product candidates will successfully be placed on the list of drugs covered by particular health plan formularies, nor can we predict the negotiated price for such products, which will be determined by market factors. Many states have also created preferred drug lists and include drugs on those lists only when the manufacturers agree to pay a supplemental rebate. If tavaborole or other products that may result from our product candidates are not included on these preferred drug lists, physicians may not be inclined to prescribe them to their patients, thereby diminishing the potential market for such products. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations may affect the use of our products. Government agencies may issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us, our partners or our potential future partners and our product candidates. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time publish guidelines or recommendations to the healthcare and patient communities. These various sorts of recommendations may relate to such matters as product usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related or competing therapies. Changes to these recommendations or other guidelines advocating alternative therapies could result in decreased use of our products, which may adversely affect our results of operations. 49 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We are dependent on our existing third party collaborations and research agreements to fund additional development opportunities and expect to continue to expend resources in our current collaborations and/or research agreements with GSK, Lilly, the Gates Foundation and DTRA. These research collaborations may fail to successfully identify product candidates, may result in disputes or our partners may elect not to license, develop or commercialize any of the resulting compounds, including, in the case of GSK, the tuberculosis (TB) compounds that GSK licensed from us in September 2013. In the event our collaborator does not elect to exercise its option or elects not to develop or commercialize our collaboration product candidates, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Currently, we have three significant ongoing collaboration and research agreements: an August 2010 collaborative research, license and commercialization agreement with Lilly for the discovery, development and worldwide commercialization of animal health products for specific applications; an April 2013 research collaboration with the Gates Foundation to discover drug candidates intended to treat two filarial worm diseases (onchocerciasis, or river blindness, and lymphatic filariasis, commonly known as elephantiasis) and TB and an October 2013 research agreement with DTRA to design and discover new classes of systemic antibiotics. While the research period under our collaboration agreement with GSK expired in October 2013, GSK selected a compound for further development in TB in September 2013 and will be responsible for all further development and commercialization of this compound under our October 2007 research and development collaboration, option and license agreement with GSK, as amended. In January 2014, Anacor received notice that Lilly is terminating the research term in March 2014, or five months earlier than the August 2014 expiration as specified in the agreement, which will terminate Lilly's obligation to make quarterly research payments under the agreement to us. The remainder of the agreement remains in effect, and potential payments and royalties related to compounds under development by Lilly pursuant to the agreement remain unaffected by the termination of the research term. Under the Gates Foundation research agreement, the Gates Foundation will pay us up to $17.7 million over a three-year research term to conduct research activities directed at discovering potential neglected disease drug candidates and to create an expanded library of boron compounds to screen for additional potential drug candidates to treat neglected diseases, which will be accessible to the Gates Foundation and other third parties. In connection with the research agreement, the Gates Foundation purchased shares of our common stock for net proceeds of approximately $5.0 million. Under the research agreement with DTRA, we will work with a drug discovery consortium formed by Colorado State University, the University of California at Berkeley and us to design and discover new classes of systemic antibiotics. The research will be conducted over a three and a half year period. The work is funded by a $13.5 million award from DTRA's R&D Innovation and Systems Engineering Office, which was established to search for and execute strategic investments in innovative technologies for combating weapons of mass destruction. Under this award, we will apply our boron chemistry to discover rationally designed novel antibiotics that target DTRA-priority pathogens known to exhibit resistance to existing antibiotics. During the research terms of the collaborations and research agreements, we and, in some cases, our partner are committed to use our diligent efforts to discover and develop compounds and to provide specified resources, on a project-by-project basis. We are either reimbursed for our research costs, or each party is responsible for its own research costs, but in all cases we expect to continue to expend resources on the collaborations and research agreements. If we fail to successfully identify product candidates or, in some cases, demonstrate proof-of-concept for those product candidates we identify, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In the case of the DTRA award, after the initial term of eleven months, DTRA has the sole option to fund the research in the subsequent twelve- and nineteen- month periods. In addition, we may mutually agree with our collaboration partner not to pursue all of the research activities contemplated under the applicable agreement. Certain collaboration partners have the option, but are not required, to exclusively license or select for further development certain product candidates under the agreement 50 Table of Contents once the product candidate meets specified criteria, subject to continuing obligations to make milestone payments and royalty payments on commercial sales, if any, of such licensed compounds. Certain collaboration partners are obligated to make payments to us upon the achievement of certain initial discovery and developmental milestones, but further, more significant milestone payments are payable only on compounds that the partner chooses to license or develop. If we devote significant resources to a research project and our collaboration partner elects not to exercise its option with respect to any resulting product candidates or elects not to develop such candidates, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In certain cases, if our partner does not exercise a given option or terminates development, we may request a license to develop and commercialize products containing the relevant compounds. If we make such a request, we will be obligated to make certain milestone and royalty payments to the partner upon development and commercialization of such products. If our collaboration partner elects to license or develop a compound, like GSK and Lilly have, the partner assumes sole responsibility for further development, regulatory approval and commercialization of such compound. Thus, with respect to compounds that our partner chooses to develop, the timing of development and future payments to us, including milestone and royalty payments, will depend on the extent to which such licensed compounds advance through development, regulatory approval and commercialization by our partner. Additionally, our partner can choose to terminate the agreement with a specified notice period or its license to any compounds at any time with no further obligation to develop and commercialize such compounds. In such event, we would not be eligible to receive further payments for the affected compounds. We would retain rights to develop and market any such product candidates. However, we would be required to fund further development and commercialization ourselves or with other partners if we continue to pursue these product candidates and, in some cases, would owe our previous partner royalties if we succeeded in commercializing any such product candidates. For example, in September 2013, Lilly notified us that it was ceasing further development of the compound licensed in August 2011for an animal health indication. Similarly, in October 2012, GSK discontinued clinical development of AN3365. There can be no assurance that our partners will not terminate development candidates remaining under license in our existing collaboration agreements. If our partner does not devote sufficient resources to the research, development and commercialization of compounds identified through our research collaboration, or is ineffective in doing so, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, if our partner independently develops products that compete with our compounds, it could elect to advance such products and not develop or commercialize our product candidates, even while complying with applicable exclusivity provisions. We cannot assure you that our collaboration partners will fulfill their obligations under the agreements or develop and commercialize compounds identified by the research collaborations. If our partners fail to fulfill their obligations under the agreements or terminate the agreements, we would need to obtain the capital necessary to fund the development and commercialization of the returned compounds, enter into alternative arrangements with a third party or halt our development efforts in these areas. We also could become involved in disputes with our partners, which could lead to delays in or termination of the research collaborations or the development and commercialization of identified product candidates and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If our partners terminate or breach their agreements with us or otherwise do not advance the compounds identified by our research collaborations, our chances of successfully developing or commercializing such compounds could be materially and adversely affected. For example, on November 28, 2012, we filed an arbitration demand alleging breach of contract by Medicis under the Medicis Agreement and seeking damages related to payment for the achievement of certain preclinical milestones under that agreement. On December 11, 2012, Medicis filed a complaint for breach of the Medicis Agreement and a motion for preliminary injunction in the Delaware Court of Chancery seeking to enjoin us from prosecuting our claims through arbitration and to require us to continue to use diligent efforts to conduct research and development under the Medicis Agreement. 51 Table of Contents On October 27, 2013, we entered into a $142.5 million settlement agreement with Valeant, parent of Medicis and DPS, which, among other effects, terminated the Medicis Agreement and all rights and licenses to intellectual property reverted back to us. There can be no assurances that we will not have other disputes in the future with our current or future partners with respect to our collaboration agreements. We may not be successful in establishing and maintaining development and commercialization collaborations, which could adversely affect our ability to develop certain of our product candidates and our financial condition and operating results. Developing pharmaceutical products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval, establishing manufacturing capabilities and marketing approved products is expensive. Consequently, we plan to establish collaborations for development and commercialization of product candidates and research programs. For example, if tavaborole, AN2728 or any of our other product candidates receives marketing approval, we intend to enter into sales and marketing arrangements with third parties for non-specialty markets in the United States and for international sales, and to develop our own sales force targeting podiatrists, dermatologists and other specialty markets in the United States. If we are unable to enter into any such arrangements on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to market and sell our products in these markets. We expect to face competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaboration arrangements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement and they may require substantial resources to maintain. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements for the development of our product candidates. When we partner with a third party for development and commercialization of a product candidate, we can expect to relinquish to the third party some or all of the control over the future success of that product candidate. Our collaboration partner may not devote sufficient resources to the commercialization of our product candidates or may otherwise fail in their commercialization. The terms of any collaboration or other arrangement that we establish may not be favorable to us. In addition, any collaboration that we enter into may be unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our product candidates. In some cases, we may be responsible for continuing preclinical and initial clinical development of a partnered product candidate or research program, and the payment we receive from our collaboration partner may be insufficient to cover the cost of this development. If we are unable to reach agreements with suitable collaborators for our product candidates, we may incur increased costs, we may be forced to limit the number of our product candidates we can commercially develop or the territories in which we commercialize them and we might fail to commercialize products or programs or territories for which a suitable collaborator cannot be found. If we fail to achieve successful collaborations, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on third-party contractors for a substantial portion of our operations and may not be able to control their work as effectively as if we performed these functions ourselves. We outsource substantial portions of our operations to third-party service providers, including chemical synthesis, biological screening and manufacturing and the conduct of our clinical trials and various preclinical studies. We anticipate outsourcing the distribution of tavaborole, once approved, to a third party logistics provider, as well as certain of our sales and marketing operations. Our agreements with third-party service providers and clinical research organizations are on a study-by-study basis and are typically short-term. In all cases, we may terminate the agreements with notice and are responsible for the service provider's previously incurred costs. Because we have relied on third parties, our internal capacity to perform these functions is limited. Outsourcing these functions involves risk that third parties may not perform to our standards, may not produce results in a timely manner, may become troubled financially or may fail to perform at all. In addition, the use of third-party service providers requires us to disclose our proprietary information to 52 Table of Contents these parties, which could increase the risk that this information will be misappropriated. There are a limited number of third-party service providers that have the expertise required to achieve our business objectives. Identifying, qualifying and managing performance of third-party service providers can be difficult and time consuming and could cause delays in our development programs. We currently have a small number of employees, which limits the internal resources we have available to identify and monitor our third-party providers. To the extent we are unable to identify, retain and successfully manage the performance of third-party service providers in the future, our business may be adversely affected. We have limited experience manufacturing our active pharmaceutical ingredients and product candidates on a large clinical or commercial scale, and have no manufacturing facility. As a result, we are dependent on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates and our supply chain, and if we experience problems with any of these suppliers, the manufacturing of our product candidates or products could be delayed. We do not own or operate facilities for the manufacture of our product candidates. We have a small number of personnel with experience in drug product manufacturing. We currently outsource all manufacturing and packaging of our preclinical and clinical product candidates to third parties and intend to continue to do so. If tavaborole is approved, the inability to manufacture sufficient supplies of the active drug ingredient or drug product could adversely affect product commercialization. We also outsource to third parties the active ingredient and drug product manufacturing for AN2728 and our other product candidates. We currently do not have any agreements with third-party manufacturers for the long-term commercial supply of our product candidates, including tavaborole. We may be unable to enter into agreements for commercial supply with third party manufacturers, or may be unable to do so on acceptable terms. We rely on single source suppliers of our current requirements of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and drug products for tavaborole and AN2728 under manufacturing services agreements. In the event that the parties cannot agree to the terms and conditions for these suppliers to provide some or all of our clinical and commercial supply needs of API and drug products, we would not be able to manufacture API and drug products until alternative suppliers are identified and qualified, which could delay the further development of, and impair our ability to commercialize, these product candidates. We may not be able to establish additional sources of supply for our products. Such suppliers are subject to regulatory requirements, covering manufacturing, testing, quality control and record keeping relating to our product candidates, as well as for product candidates owned by other companies. These suppliers are also subject to ongoing inspections by the regulatory agencies. Failure by any of our suppliers to comply with applicable regulations may result in long delays and interruptions to our product candidate supply while we seek to secure another supplier that meets all regulatory requirements. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured the product candidates ourselves, including: •the possible breach of the manufacturing agreements by the third parties because of factors beyond our control; •the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreements by the third parties because of our breach of the manufacturing agreement or based on their own business priorities; •the possibility of encountering difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance or suffer shortages of qualified personnel, which could result in their inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of drugs to meet commercial needs or clinical supplies of our product candidates; •the possibility of failing to establish and follow FDA-mandated cGMPs which are required for FDA approval of our product candidates, or fail to document their adherence to cGMPs, either of which could require costly recalls of products already having received approval, lead to 53 Table of Contents significant delays in the availability of material for clinical study or delay or prevent marketing approval for our product candidates; and •the possibility of encountering financial difficulties that would interfere with their obligations to supply our product candidates. In addition, the manufacturing facilities of certain of our suppliers are located outside of the United States. This may give rise to difficulties in importing our products or product candidates or their components into the United States or other countries as a result of, among other things, regulatory agency import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. Any of these factors could result in delays or higher costs in connection with our clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our products. If we lose our relationships with contract research organizations, our drug development efforts could be delayed. We are substantially dependent on third-party vendors and contract research organizations for preclinical studies and clinical trials related to our drug discovery and development efforts. If we lose our relationship with any one or more of these providers, we could experience a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting for its services, which could adversely affect our development efforts. We may be unable to retain an alternative provider on reasonable terms, or at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, it is likely that this provider will need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of services as the original provider. In addition, any contract research organization that we retain will be subject to the FDA's regulatory requirements and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers. Consequently, if these practices and standards are not adhered to by these providers, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, which could severely harm our business and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our current and future product candidates and the methods used to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. Our ability to stop third parties from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our products is dependent upon the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets that cover these activities. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical patents has emerged to date in the United States or in many foreign jurisdictions. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and foreign jurisdictions may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be enforced in the patents that we currently own or that may be issued from the applications we have filed or may file in the future or that we may license from third parties. Further, if any patents we obtain or license are deemed invalid and unenforceable, it could impact our ability to commercialize or license our technology. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: •others may be able to make compounds that are similar to our product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of our patents; 54 Table of Contents •we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our pending patent applications; •we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; •others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; •any patents that we obtain may not provide us with any competitive advantages; •we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or •the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. As of February 1, 2014, we are an owner of record, either solely or with a collaborator, of 23 issued U.S. patents and 37 non-U.S. patents with claims to boron-containing compounds, methods of making these compounds or methods of using these compounds in various indications. We are actively pursuing, either solely or with a collaborator, 24 U.S. patent applications (6 provisional and 18 non-provisional), 4 international (PCT) patent applications and 127 non-U.S. patent applications in at least 30 jurisdictions. Of these actively pursued applications, 1 non-provisional U.S. patent application and 16 non-U.S. patent applications are solely owned by a collaborator. Due to the patent laws of a country, or the decisions of a patent examiner in a country, or our own filing strategies, we may not obtain patent coverage for all of the product candidates or methods involving these candidates in the parent patent application. We plan to pursue divisional patent applications and/or continuation patent applications in the United States and many other countries to obtain claim coverage for inventions that were disclosed but not claimed in the parent patent application. There have been numerous changes to the patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), which may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, in September 2011, President Obama signed the America Invents Act that codifies several significant changes to the U.S. patent laws, including, among other things, changing from a "first to invent" to a "first inventor to file" system, limiting where a patent holder may file a patent suit, requiring the apportionment of patent damages, replacing interference proceedings with derivation actions and creating a post-grant opposition process to challenge patents after they have been issued. The effects of these changes are currently unclear as the USPTO must still implement various regulations, the courts have yet to address any of these provisions and the applicability of the act and new regulations on specific patents discussed herein have not been determined and would need to be reviewed. However, this act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Our patent applications would not prevent others from taking advantage of the chemical properties of boron to discover and develop new therapies, including therapies for the indications we are targeting. If others seek to develop boron-based therapies, their research and development efforts may inhibit our ability to conduct research in certain areas and to expand our intellectual property portfolio. 55 Table of Contents We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to enforce or protect our rights to, or use, our technology. If we choose to go to court to stop another party from using the inventions claimed in any patents we obtain, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that such patents are invalid or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and resources and divert the attention of managerial and scientific personnel even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of such patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that such patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of such patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the grounds that such other party's activities do not infringe our rights to such patents. In addition, the United States Supreme Court has recently modified some tests used by the USPTO in granting patents over the past 20 years, which may decrease the likelihood that we will be able to obtain patents and increase the likelihood of challenge of any patents we obtain or license. Furthermore, a third party may claim that we or our manufacturing or commercialization partners are using inventions covered by the third party's patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making or selling our product candidates. These lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and scientific personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we or our commercialization partners are infringing the third party's patents and would order us or our partners to stop the activities covered by the patents. In that event, we or our commercialization partners may not have a viable way around the patent and may need to halt commercialization of the relevant product. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us or our partners to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party's patents. In the future, we may agree to indemnify our commercial partners against certain intellectual property infringement claims brought by third parties. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity is difficult. For example, in the United States, proving invalidity requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications, or that we were the first to invent the technology. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications, which could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful if, unbeknownst to us, the other party had independently arrived at the same or similar invention prior to our own invention, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. 56 Table of Contents Patents covering the composition of matter of tavaborole and AN2718 that were owned by others have expired. Our patent applications and patents include or support claims on other aspects of tavaborole or AN2718, such as pharmaceutical formulations containing tavaborole or AN2718, methods of using tavaborole or AN2718 to treat disease and methods of manufacturing tavaborole or AN2718. Without patent protection on the composition of matter of tavaborole or AN2718, our ability to assert our patents to stop others from using or selling tavaborole or AN2718 in a non-pharmaceutically acceptable formulation may be limited. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. For example, in our legal proceedings with Valeant regarding efinaconazole, we spent considerable resources, including management time, in the proceedings. The final hearing was held in September 2013 and, on October 17, 2013, the arbitrator issued an Interim Final Award in our favor for $100.0 million in damages as well as all costs of the arbitration and reasonable attorneys' fees. On October 27, 2013, we, Valeant and DPS entered into a settlement agreement and Valeant agreed to pay us $142.5 million to settle all existing and future claims, including the damages awarded in the October 17, 2013 arbitration ruling, and, among other things, all other disputes between Valeant, DPS and us related to our intellectual property, confidential information and contractual rights. We agreed to provide Valeant a paid-up, irrevocable, non-exclusive, worldwide license to all patents that contain claims covering efinaconazole. We do not have exclusive rights to intellectual property we developed under U.S. federally funded research grants and contracts in connection with certain of our neglected diseases initiatives, including our recent research agreements with the Gates Foundation and DTRA, and, in the case of those funded research activities, we could ultimately share or lose the rights we do have under certain circumstances. Some of our intellectual property rights related to compounds that are not currently in clinical development were initially developed in the course of research funded by the U.S. government. As a result, the U.S. government may have certain rights to intellectual property embodied in our current or future products pursuant to the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980. Government rights in certain inventions developed under a government-funded program include a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable worldwide license to use inventions for any governmental purpose. In addition, the U.S. government has the right to require us to grant exclusive licenses to any of these inventions to a third party if they determine that: (i) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize the invention; (ii) government action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs; or (iii) government action is necessary to meet requirements for public use under federal regulations. The U.S. government also has the right to take title to these inventions if we fail to disclose the invention to the government and fail to file an application to register the intellectual property within specified time limits. In addition, the U.S. government may acquire title in any country in which a patent application is not filed within specified time limits. Some of our intellectual property rights related to boron-containing compounds that are currently in clinical development, although not funded by the U.S. government, were developed through collaborations. We receive research funding from DNDi, which requires that we share rights with DNDi. For example, we have a co-exclusive, royalty-free, sublicensable license with DNDi to make, use, import and manufacture products for treatment of sleeping sickness, Chagas disease and cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in humans in all countries of the world, specifically excluding Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Russia, China and all countries of North America and Europe (DNDi Territory). We also grant to DNDi an exclusive, royalty-free, sublicensable license to distribute, including uses by, or on behalf of, a public sector agency, products containing molecules synthesized under the research plan 57 Table of Contents for treatment of sleeping sickness, Chagas disease and cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in humans in the DNDi Territory. As a result of these licenses, we are unlikely to realize any revenue in the DNDi Territory for any human therapeutics that we discover for these diseases. In March 2012, DNDi initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial for AN5568 in France. AN5568 is being developed for the treatment of sleeping sickness. As of February 1, 2014, the boron-containing compounds being studied in this collaboration are structurally distinct from our other clinical product candidates. Currently, none of our existing clinical product candidates under development are being considered for use in the DNDi collaboration. Likewise, some of our intellectual property rights related to boron-containing compounds that are not currently in clinical development were developed through a collaboration with Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV). We accept research and development funding from MMV, and we provide MMV with a worldwide, royalty-free non-exclusive license (without the right to sublicense, except with our prior written approval) to intellectual property rights arising under the collaboration to develop human therapeutics for the treatment of malaria under our research and development agreements with MMV. The boron-containing compounds under development in our MMV collaboration are currently structurally distinct from our clinical product candidates and none of our existing clinical product candidates are being considered for use in the MMV collaboration. Under our Gates Foundation research agreement, our research efforts with respect to project compounds in neglected diseases and Gates Foundation priority areas in identified developing countries are subject to co-ownership or exclusive exploitation rights of the Gates Foundation. While we have a first right to develop and commercialize those project compounds, we are required to implement a global access program for such compounds and we may not be able to further develop or exploit project compounds identified in the collaboration. Under our DTRA collaboration, we will design and discover new classes of systemic antibiotics under a drug discovery consortium formed by us, Colorado State University (CSU) and the University of California at Berkeley (UCB), and will conduct the research over a three and a half year period. The total $13.5 million award is available to the consortium to fund $2.7 million of research reimbursement for the eleven month period through September 30, 2014, and $5.0 million and $5.7 million is available upon DTRA exercising their option to fund the subsequent twelve and nineteen-month periods, respectively. The funds will support our internal research as well as research conducted in the labs of CSU and UCB. Our research efforts are subject to co-ownership rights with CSU, UCB and the U.S. Government. Our existing collaborations may limit our ability to develop collaboration intellectual property and compounds subject to the collaboration. Certain of our patents are jointly owned with our collaborator, which may limit our ability to further develop or research related compounds. For example, under an existing collaboration, we jointly own 1 U.S. patent, 2 provisional U.S. patent applications and 1 international (PCT) patent application with a collaborator, and have a license under 1 non-provisional U.S. patent application and 16 non-U.S. patent applications solely owned by the collaborator. The rights of our collaborators to jointly-owned intellectual property and compounds under the collaborations will, in the future, restrict our ability to further develop or generate revenues from those compounds, except through the collaborations. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth We may need to expand certain of our operations and increase the size of our company, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As we contemplate commercialization of our lead product candidate, increase the number of product development programs we have underway and advance our product candidates through development and commercialization, we will need to increase our product development, scientific, 58 Table of Contents regulatory, marketing, sales and administrative headcount to manage these efforts. Our management, personnel and systems currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: •successfully attract and recruit new employees with the expertise and experience we will require; •develop a marketing, sales and distribution capability; •manage our clinical programs effectively, which we anticipate being conducted at numerous clinical sites; and •continue to develop our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to successfully manage this growth, our business may be adversely affected. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, sales and marketing, finance, scientific and clinical personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in Northern California. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. We are highly dependent on the development, regulatory, commercialization and business development expertise of our executive officers and key employees. If we lose one or more of our executive officers or key employees, our ability to implement our business strategy successfully could be seriously harmed. We have entered into change of control and severance agreements with each of our officers as part of our retention efforts. Replacing executive officers and key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, motivate or retain these additional key personnel. Our failure to retain key personnel could materially harm our business. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our business and our stock price. We operate in an increasingly demanding regulatory environment, which requires us to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, expanded disclosure requirements, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Company responsibilities required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act include establishing adequate internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. The growth of our operations and our initial public offering created a need for additional resources within the accounting and finance functions in order to produce timely financial information and to create the level of segregation of duties customary for a U.S. public company. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally 59 Table of Contents accepted accounting principles. Our management does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company will have been detected. We were required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Section 404) in connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2013. We have expended significant resources to develop the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404. We cannot be certain that the actions we have taken to improve our internal control over financial reporting will be sufficient, and if we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations and growth. Other Risks Relating to Our Business We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we may obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims may be brought against us or our partners by participants enrolled in our clinical trials, patients, healthcare providers or others using, administering or selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against any such claims, we would incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •termination of clinical trial sites or entire trial programs; •costs of related litigation; •substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; •decreased demand for our product candidates and loss of revenues; •impairment of our business reputation; •diversion of management and scientific resources from our business operations; and •the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials domestically and in selected foreign countries where we are conducting clinical trials. Our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage for products to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us, particularly if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. 60 Table of Contents Our operations involve hazardous materials, which could subject us to significant liabilities. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of exposure of individuals to hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use of these materials and our liability may exceed our total assets. We have general liability insurance coverage of up to $5.0 million per occurrence, with an annual aggregate limit of $6.0 million, which excludes pollution liability. This coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims related to our biological or hazardous materials. Furthermore, if we were to be held liable for a claim involving our biological or hazardous materials, this liability could exceed our insurance coverage, if any, and our other financial resources. Compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations may be expensive and current or future regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in order to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These current or future laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions. Our insurance policies are expensive and protect us only from some business risks, which will leave us exposed to significant uninsured liabilities. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance. In the event of a major earthquake in our region, our business could suffer significant and uninsured damage and loss. Some of the policies we currently maintain include general liability, employment practices liability, property, auto, workers' compensation, products liability and directors' and officers' insurance. We do not know, however, if we will be able to maintain existing insurance with adequate levels of coverage. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. Our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex and interdependent information technology systems, including Internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and computer viruses that may result in the impairment of production and key business processes. In addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches—whether by employees or others—that may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. Such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, potential customers and others. Such disruptions and breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock Ownership in our common stock is highly concentrated. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. As of February 15, 2014, our executive officers, directors and stockholders who own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock, together beneficially own shares representing approximately 43% of 61 Table of Contents our common stock based on reports filed with the SEC. While this does not represent a majority of our outstanding common stock, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they would be able to significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, these persons, if they choose to act together, will significantly influence the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other business combination or reorganization. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of us on terms that other stockholders may desire. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including seeking a premium value for their common stock, and might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. If we raise additional capital by issuing securities in the future, such as under our existing equity distribution agreement, it will cause dilution to existing stockholders and may cause our share price to decline. We may raise additional funds through the issuance and sale of additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. For example, in January 2013, we entered into an equity distribution agreement with Wedbush Securities Inc. (Wedbush) pursuant to which we may issue and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate offering price up to $25.0 million, from time to time. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by Wedbush is dependent upon the number of shares that we elect to sell through Wedbush under the agreement. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, sales of shares of our common stock through Wedbush under the agreement may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additionally, and separate from our equity securities agreement with Wedbush, in April 2013 and May 2013, we sold shares of our common stock for net proceeds of approximately $5.0 million and $21.3 million, respectively. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities under the agreement with Wedbush or otherwise, our stockholders will experience additional dilution, and any such issuances may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock in the "at-the-market" offering, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We may issue shares of our common stock with aggregate sales proceeds of up to $25.0 million from time to time in connection with the "at-the-market" offering. Through December 31, 2013, we sold shares of our common stock for net proceeds of approximately $1.3 million and currently have approximately $23.6 million potentially remaining available for sale under our "at-the-market" offering and the issuance from time to time of these new shares of common stock, or our ability to issue these new shares of common stock in this offering, could have the effect of depressing the market price for our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur, will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends is currently prohibited by the terms of our loan and security agreement with Hercules. 62 Table of Contents Our share price may be volatile and could decline significantly. The market price of shares of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: •announcement of FDA approvability, approval or non-approval of tavaborole or our other product candidates, and the timing of the FDA review process; •actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to products or drug classes related to tavaborole or our product candidates; •problems in our manufacturing or supply chain that limit or exhaust the quantity of supplies of tavaborole or other product candidates that are available to patients; •changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; •results or delays of our clinical trials; •results of clinical trials of our competitors' products; •regulatory actions with respect to our products or our competitors' products; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; •actual or anticipated changes in our product sales growth rates relative to those of our competitors; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors' operating results or changes in their product sales growth rates; •competition from existing products or new products that may emerge; •announcements by us, our collaborators or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments; •issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; •fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; •share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; •additions or departures of key management or scientific personnel; •disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; •announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts; •sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders; •market conditions for biopharmaceutical stocks in general; and •general economic and market conditions. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. You may not realize any return on an investment in us and may lose some or all of your investment. 63 Table of Contents We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention. Our share price may be volatile, and in the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares of common stock is subject to demand registration rights, which could require us to register such shares for public sale at the holders' option. Holders of shares of our common stock who are party to an investors' rights agreement and a registration rights agreement with us have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. As a public company, we are subject to additional expenses and administrative burden. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses and our administrative staff is required to perform additional tasks, such as adopting additional internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, retaining a transfer agent and bearing all of the internal and external costs of preparing and distributing periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the securities laws. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Global Market, are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We are currently evaluating and monitoring these rules and proposed changes to rules, and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may divert management's time and attention from product development activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. In the future, it may be more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our 64 Table of Contents management team. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits, with some exceptions, stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Finally, our charter documents establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Although we believe these provisions together provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. If we commit certain material breaches under the research agreement with the Gates Foundation, and fail to cure them, we may be required to redeem shares of our common stock held by the Gates Foundation and its affiliates. In the event of termination of the research agreement by the Gates Foundation for certain specified uncured material breaches by us, we will be obligated, among other remedies, to repurchase the $5 million in common stock purchased by the Gates Foundation in connection with the research agreement, facilitate the purchase of such common stock by a third party or elect to register the resale of such common stock into the public markets unless certain specified conditions are satisfied. If we are required to repurchase such shares of common stock, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 