ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth below, in addition to the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below and the other risks described in this annual report, there may also be additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. As a result, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. The United States Economy Is In Recession. A Prolonged Economic Downturn, Especially One Affecting Our Geographic Market Area, Could Materially Affect our Business and Financial Results. The United States economy entered a recession in the fourth quarter of 2007. Throughout the course of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009, economic conditions continued to worsen, due in large part to the fallout from the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market. While we did not originate or invest in sub-prime mortgages, our lending business is tied, in large part, to the housing market. Declines in home prices, increases in foreclosures and higher unemployment have adversely affected the credit performance of real estate-related loans, resulting in the write-down of asset values. The continuing housing slump also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, further declines in home prices, and increased delinquencies on our construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Further, the ongoing concern about the stability of the financial markets in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. 32 Table of Contents Legislative or Regulatory Actions Responding to Financial and Market Weakness Could Affect Us Adversely. There Can Be No Assurance that Actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies For the Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets Will Achieve the Intended Effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, the U.S. Congress has passed legislation and the U.S. Treasury has promulgated programs designed to purchase assets from, provide equity capital to, and guarantee the liquidity of the financial services industry. Specifically, Congress adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, under which the U.S. Treasury has the authority to expend up to $700 billion to assist in stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial system. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program, under which it will purchase up to $250 billion of non-voting senior preferred shares of certain qualified financial institutions in an attempt to encourage financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of financing to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. In addition, Congress temporarily increased FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2009. The FDIC has also announced the creation of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions by temporarily guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating organizations and providing full insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts (such as business checking accounts, interest-bearing transaction accounts paying 50 basis points or less and lawyers’ trust accounts), regardless of dollar amount until December 31, 2009. Finally, in February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was enacted, which is intended to expand and establish government spending programs and provide certain tax cuts to stimulate the economy. The U.S. government continues to evaluate and develop various programs and initiatives designed to stabilize the financial and housing markets and stimulate the economy, including the U.S. Treasury’s recently announced Financial Stability Plan and the recently announced foreclosure prevention program. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and the issuance of many formal enforcement orders is expected. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. Our FDIC insurance premiums have increased, and may continue to increase, because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Recent Negative Developments in the Financial Services Industry And the Credit Markets May Subject Us to Additional Regulation. As a result of the recent financial crisis, the potential exists for the promulgation of new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, which are expected to result in the issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to these developments, may negatively affect our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans and pursue business opportunities. Compliance with such regulation also will likely increase our costs. Our Expenses Will Increase as a Result of Increases in FDIC Insurance Premiums. The FDIC imposes an assessment against financial institutions for deposit insurance. This assessment is based on the risk category of the institution and currently ranges from 5 to 43 basis points of the institution’s deposits. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule that increases the current deposit insurance assessment rates to a range from 12 to 45 basis points beginning April 1, 2009. Additionally, the FDIC has issued an interim rule that would impose a special 20 basis points assessment on deposits as of June 30, 2009, which would be paid on September 30, 2009. This special assessment would total approximately $1.4 million based on our deposits as of December 31, 2008. Lack of Consumer Confidence in Financial Institutions May Decrease Our Level of Deposits. Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not FDIC-insured accounts. That may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and place them in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the U.S. Treasury. These consumer preferences may force us to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. 33 Table of Contents Our Emphasis on Commercial Real Estate Loans and Commercial Business Loans May Expose us to Increased Lending Risks. At December 31, 2008, $466.0 million, or 58.6% of our loan portfolio, consisted of commercial real estate loans, including commercial construction loans. Commercial real estate loans constitute a greater percentage of our loan portfolio than any other loan category, including residential mortgage loans, which totaled $227.0 million, or 28.5% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2008. In addition, at December 31, 2008, $54.3 million, or 6.8% of our loan portfolio, consisted of commercial business loans. We have increased our originations of commercial real estate and commercial business loans in recent years and we intend to continue to emphasize this type of lending. Commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans generally expose a lender to a greater risk of loss than one- to four-family residential loans. Repayment of commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally depends, in large part, on sufficient income from the property or the borrower’s business, respectively, to cover operating expenses and debt service. Commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Changes in economic conditions that are beyond the control of the borrower and lender could affect the value of the security for the loan, the future cash flow of the affected property, or the marketability of a construction project with respect to loans originated for the acquisition and development of property. See “Business—Lending Activities.” An Inadequate Allowance for Loan Losses Would Negatively Affect Our Results of Operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to avoid losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Volatility and deterioration in the broader economy may also increase our risk of credit losses. The determination of an appropriate level of allowance for loan losses is an inherently uncertain process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and charge-offs may exceed current estimates. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as, including, but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; previous loan loss experience; specific loans that have loss potential; delinquency trends; the estimated fair market value of the collateral; current economic conditions; the views of our regulators; and geographic and industry loan concentrations. If any of our evaluations are incorrect and borrower defaults result in losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance will be adequate to cover probable loan losses inherent in our portfolio. The Need to Account for Assets at Market Prices May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Given the continued disruption in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. 34 Table of Contents Changes in the Value of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Could Reduce Our Earnings. We are required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of December 31, 2008, if our goodwill and intangible assets were fully impaired and we were required to charge-off all of our goodwill, the pro forma reduction to our stockholders’ equity would be approximately $1.90 per share. Other-Than-Temporary Impairment (OTTI) Could Reduce Our Earnings. We evaluate our investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) as required by SFAS 115. When a decline in fair value below cost is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the related loss must be recognized as a charge to earnings and the investment is recorded at fair value. In determining whether or not OTTI exists management considers several factors, including but not limited to, the length of time and extent that fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, adverse changes to projected cash flows, credit rating downgrades, and our ability and intent to hold the security for a period sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. The greatest risk of OTTI exists in our investment securities portfolio and in particular with the collateralized debt obligation (CDO) securities that we own. As of December 31, 2008, if our entire CDO portfolio was deemed to be OTTI, the pro forma reduction to our stockholders’ equity would be approximately $0.72 per share. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business, and in the Jersey shore community in general. Unlike large banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Cape May and Atlantic Counties, New Jersey. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Should the economic downturn limit discretionary spending, many of the seasonal and vacation oriented businesses may suffer. In addition, the gaming industry is a significant economic force in our market and has already suffered a serious decline in revenues due to the economy and increased regional competition. This situation may worsen in the future. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, would affect the local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy also may have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: 1. the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and 2. the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. From June 30, 2004 through June 30, 2006, the Federal Reserve Board increased its target for the federal funds rate, from 1.0% to 5.25%. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide in pricing our deposits) increased, longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide in pricing our longer-term loans) did not increase to the same degree. This “flattening” and at certain times, “inversion” of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin. From September 2007 through March 2008, the Federal Reserve Board decreased its target for the federal funds rate from 5.25% to 2.25%. At the same time, longer-term interest rates did not decline to the same degree. If this “steepening” of the market yield curve were to continue, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings reprice downward faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience an increase in our net interest spread and margin, which would have a positive effect on our profitability. Our average interest rate spread increased 20 basis points to 3.14% for the year ended December 31, 2008 from 2.94% from the year ended December 31, 2007. 35 Table of Contents In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates normally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Alternatively, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of our available for sale investment securities totaled $114.7 million and the amortized cost of such securities was $123.8 million. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity by estimating the change in Cape Bank’s net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2008, in the event of an immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates, we would experience a 14.1% decrease in net portfolio value and a $743,000 decrease in net interest income. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” If Our Investment in The Federal Home Loan Bank Of New York is Classified as Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired or as Permanently Impaired, Our Earnings and Stockholders’ Equity Could Decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. We hold this stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our Federal Home Loan Bank common stock as of December 31, 2008 was $11.6 million based on its par value. There is no market for our Federal Home Loan Bank common stock. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of New York common stock could be impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. If the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York Stops Paying Dividends, This Will Negatively Affect Our Earnings. Certain Federal Home Loan Banks stopped paying dividends in 2008, and are prohibited from paying dividends in the future so long as they fail to meet any of their regulatory capital requirements. We received dividends of $506,000 on our Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock in 2008. The failure of the Federal Home Loan Bank to pay dividends in the future will cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease. In 2009, we have not been accruing any dividends on our Federal Home Loan Bank stock. Future Legislative or Regulatory Actions Responding to Perceived Financial and Market Problems Could Impair Our Rights Against Borrowers There have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit a lender’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Should such legislation be implemented Cape Bank could be directly impacted for those loans held directly within the portfolio. Such legislation could also have a major impact on loans held within the structure of mortgage-backed securities and thus indirectly impact Cape by decreasing the value of securities held in the investment portfolio. 36 Table of Contents A Breach of Information Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet. We cannot be certain all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Disruptions to our vendors’ systems may arise from events that are wholly or partially beyond our vendors’ control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). If information security is breached, despite the controls we have instituted, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. We Are Subject to Extensive Regulatory Oversight. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in the anti-money laundering area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, and legal proceedings. In addition, recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have or may have significant impact on the financial services industry. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, and could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services, or the way we operate our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 