ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company’s business is subject to numerous risk factors, including the following. These risk factors speak as of December 31, 2009, at which time our business was that described under Item 1, Business, “Our 2009 Business.” We have relied on loans from shareholders to fund our operations that must be repaid. If we fail to repay our outstanding notes, we may not be able to continue our operations and you may lose your entire investment. We have not performed any formal market studies, so we may not be able to market, sell or develop our property due to focusing on the wrong markets. In making our business plan, we relied on the judgment and experience of our management. We did not conduct any formal market studies about the demand for our property, and we have no plans to conduct such studies. Without market studies, we may miss opportunities to expand into other markets or identify emerging trends in the local real estate market. If we overestimate the demand for our business or fail to capitalize on new markets, our business could fail. We operate in a very competitive business environment, with the risk that we could lose some or all of our potential clientele to our competitors. Because we are a company with a limited history, our operations are subject to numerous risks similar to that of a start-up company. We expect the real estate development business to be highly competitive because many developers have access to the same market. Substantially all of them have greater financial resources and longer operating histories than we have and can be expected to compete within the business in which we engage and intend to engage. We cannot assure that we will have the necessary resources to be competitive. Also, we may not be able to establish our identity in this competitive industry. If we cannot compete successfully, our business will fail and you will lose your investment. The real estate business is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and financially stronger than we are. We compete with a large number of companies and individuals, and many of them have significantly greater financial and other resources than we have. Our competitors include local developers who are committed primarily to particular markets and also national developers who acquire properties throughout the U.S. Because we are a company with a limited history, our operations are subject to numerous risks similar to that of a start-up company. We cannot assure that we will have the necessary resources to be competitive. We may not be able to conduct successful operations in the future. The results of our operations will depend, among other things, upon our ability to develop and market our properties. Furthermore, our proposed operations may not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses or will generate income and capital appreciation, if any, at rates lower than those anticipated or necessary to sustain ourselves. Our operations may be affected by many factors, some known by us, some unknown, and some which are beyond our control. Any of these problems, or a combination thereof, could have a materially adverse effect on our viability as an entity and might cause the investment of our shareholders to be impaired or lost. To fully develop our business plan, we will need additional financing for which we have no firm commitments. To date and or the foreseeable future, we expect to rely principally upon internal financing. We expect to fund our site development through loans, or guaranteed loans made by our president and certain other shareholders. We cannot guarantee the success of this plan. We believe that from time to time, we may have to obtain additional financing in order to conduct our business in a manner consistent with our proposed operations. There can be no guaranty that additional funds will be available when, and if, needed. If we are unable to obtain financing, or if its terms are too costly, we may be forced to curtail proposed expansion of operations until such time as alternative financing may be arranged, which could have a materially adverse impact on our operations and our shareholders’ investment. We are subject to risk associated with investments in real estate. The value of, and our potential income from, our properties may decline due to developments that adversely affect real estate generally and those that are specific to our properties. General factors that may adversely affect our real estate portfolios include: • increases in interest rates; • a general tightening of the availability of credit; • a decline in the economic conditions in one or more of our primary markets; • an increase in competition for customers or a decrease in demand by customers; • an increase in supply of our property types in our primary markets; • declines in consumer spending during an economic recession that adversely affect our revenue; and • the adoption on the national, state or local level of more restrictive laws and governmental regulations, including more restrictive zoning, land use or environmental regulations and increased real estate taxes. Additional factors may adversely affect the value of, and our income from, specific properties, including: • adverse changes in the perceptions of prospective purchasers of the attractiveness of the property; • opposition from local community or political groups with respect to development or construction at a particular site; • a change in existing comprehensive zoning plans or zoning regulations that impose additional restrictions on use or requirements with respect to our property; • our inability to provide adequate management and maintenance or to obtain adequate insurance; • an increase in operating costs; • new development of a competitor’s property in or in close proximity to one of our current markets; and • earthquakes, floods or underinsured or uninsured natural disasters. The occurrence of one or more of the above risks could result in significant delays or unexpected expenses. If any of these occur, we may not achieve our projected returns on properties under development and we could lose some or all of our investments in those properties. We are subject to real estate development risks. Our development projects are subject to significant risks relating to our ability to complete our projects on time and on budget. Factors that may result in a development project exceeding budget or being prevented from completion include: • an inability to secure sufficient financing on favorable terms, including an inability to refinance construction loans; • construction delays or cost overruns, either of which may increase project development costs; • an increase in commodity costs; • an inability to obtain zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; If any of these occur, we may not achieve our projected returns on properties under development and we could lose some or all of our investments in those properties. Recent downturns in the real estate market and home mortgage financing may significantly impact our future development plans. The real estate industry is cyclical and is subject to numerous economic factors including general business conditions, changes in interest rates, inflation and oversupply of properties. Any sustained period of weakness or weakening business or economic conditions in the markets in which we intend to do business or in related markets, such as those experienced since July 2007, could result in a continuing decrease in the demand for the type of properties we intend to develop. We are vulnerable to concentration risks because our operations are currently exclusive to the Hot Springs, South Dakota area. Because of our geographic concentration and limited number of projects, our operations are more vulnerable to local economic downturns and adverse project-specific risks than those of larger, more diversified companies. The performance of the South Dakota economy greatly affects our sales and, consequently the underlying values of our properties. The South Dakota economy is heavily influenced by conditions and employment in the farming and ranching industries. Adverse conditions in these markets, could negatively affect the economy in our market. Rising interest rates may adversely affect our ability to sell lots and homes. Our results of operations and financial condition will be greatly affected by the performance of the real estate industry. Our real estate activities are subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including local real estate market conditions, both where our properties are located and in areas where our potential customers reside, substantial existing and potential competition, general national, regional and local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and mortgage availability and changes in demographic conditions. Real estate markets have historically been subject to strong periodic cycles driven by numerous factors beyond the control of market participants. Real estate investments often cannot easily be converted into cash and market values may be adversely affected by these economic circumstances, market fundamentals, competition and demographic conditions. Because of the effect these factors have on real estate values, it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales or sales prices that will be realized for individual assets. Our real estate operations are also dependent upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential customers, to the extent they finance their purchases, and for buyers of the potential customers’ existing residences. Our operations are subject to an intensive regulatory approval process. Before we can develop a property, we must obtain a variety of approvals from local and state governments with respect to such matters as zoning, density, parking, sub-division, site planning and environmental issues. Certain of these approvals are discretionary by nature. Because certain government agencies and special interest groups are involved there is a high degree of uncertainty in obtaining these approvals. Our operations are subject to natural risks. Our performance may be adversely affected by weather conditions that delay development or damage property. The U.S. military intervention in Iraq, the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001 and the potential for additional future terrorist acts have created economic, political and social uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. Further acts of terrorism could be directed against the U.S. domestically or abroad, these acts of terrorism could be directed against properties and personnel of companies such as ours. Terrorism and war developments may materially and adversely affect our business and profitability and the prices of our common stock in ways that we cannot predict at this time. We depend entirely on our executive officer to run our business, and losing the services of any executive officer would adversely affect our business. Our success depends entirely on our CEO, Philip J. Davis. We have no written employment agreements to keep Mr. Davis bound to us or to prevent him from competing with us he leaves. The process of finding qualified managers, either for replacement or expansion, is often lengthy. We can give you no assurance that we will succeed in attracting and retaining qualified executives and personnel. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could materially harm our business. We failed to file income tax returns in 2007 and 2008, and did not file payroll tax returns in 2007, 2008, and 2009, which could subject us to penalties that could harm our financial position. Although we generated losses in 2007 and 2008, we nonetheless had an obligation to file federal and state income tax returns that reflected such losses. We did not file the returns by their due dates, and we intend to file such returns shortly. Even though we do not believe we will incur any material liabilities for failing to file our 2007 and 2008 income tax returns on time, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to penalties for failing to file these returns on a timely basis. We paid no payroll taxes in 2007, 2008 and 2009, as we paid no wages during these periods. However, we cannot assure you that our failure to file “no tax due” payroll tax returns will not subject us to penalties. Any penalties we incur for failing to file tax returns could harm our financial position. Our principal stockholders will retain control of Chay Enterprises. Even if our two principal stockholders sell some of their shares, they will continue to hold a majority of the issued and outstanding shares and they may exercise control over the company and prevent a change of control in the company. Our stock will likely be subject to the Penny Stock rules, which impose significant restrictions on broker-dealers and may affect the resale of our stock. A penny stock is generally a stock that: • is not listed on a national securities exchange or NASDAQ, • is listed in the “pink sheets” or on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board, • has a price per share of less than $5.00 and • is issued by a company with net tangible assets less than $5 million. The penny stock trading rules impose additional duties and responsibilities upon broker-dealers and salespersons effecting purchase and sale transactions in common stock and other equity securities, including • determination of the purchaser’s investment suitability, • delivery of certain information and disclosures to the purchaser, and • receipt of a specific purchase agreement before effecting the purchase transaction. Many broker-dealers will not effect transactions in penny stocks, except on an unsolicited basis, in order to avoid compliance with the penny stock trading rules. In the event our common stock becomes subject to the penny stock trading rules, • such rules may materially limit or restrict the ability to resell our common stock, and • the liquidity typically associated with other publicly traded equity securities may not exist. Because of the significant restrictions on trading penny stocks, a public market may never emerge for our securities. If this happens, you may never be able to publicly sell your shares. 