Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors affect our business and the industry in which we operate. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the matters discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Business We depend on payments from third-party payors, including government healthcare programs, commercial payors and workers’ compensation programs. If these payments are reduced or eliminated, or do not increase as our costs increase, our revenues and profitability could decrease. We depend upon governmental, commercial and workers’ compensation third-party sources of payment for the services provided to patients in our surgical facilities. The amount that our surgical facilities receive in payment for their services may be adversely affected by factors we do not control, including Medicare, Medicaid and state regulation changes, cost containment decisions and changes in reimbursement schedules of payors, legislative changes, refinements to the Medicare ASC payment system and refinements by CMS to Medicare’s reimbursement policies. Similarly, third-party payors may be successful in negotiating reduced reimbursement schedules with our facilities. Any reduction or elimination of these payments or an increase in the payments at a rate that is less than the increase in our costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If we or our health system partners are unable to negotiate and enter into favorable contracts or maintain satisfactory relationships and renew existing contracts on favorable terms with non-governmental third-party payors, our revenues and profitability may decrease. Payments from non-governmental third-party payors represented approximately 60% of our consolidated net patient revenues and 77% of our nonconsolidated net patient revenues for the year-ended December 31, 2013. We receive most of these payments from third-party payors that have contracts with our facilities. These payors use a variety of methods for reimbursement depending on the insurance arrangement involved. These arrangements include preferred provider organizations, health maintenance organizations, as well as prepaid and discounted medical service packages, capitated (fixed fee) contracts, Medicare Advantage Plans and contracts with Independent Physician Associations. If we or our health system partners fail to enter into favorable contracts or to maintain satisfactory relationships and renew existing contracts on favorable terms with these payors, our revenues and profitability may decrease. Other healthcare providers may impact our ability to negotiate increases and other favorable terms in our reimbursement arrangements with non-governmental third-party payors. For example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with non-governmental third-party payors or otherwise restrict the ability of non-governmental third-party payors to contract with us or our health system partners. Moreover, these third-party payors are increasingly implementing cost containment measures, such as fixed fee schedules and reductions to reimbursement schedules, which may reduce our revenues and profitability now or in the future. Further, the trend toward consolidation among non-governmental third-party payors tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. As various provisions of the Health Reform Law are implemented, including the establishment of health insurance exchanges, non-governmental third-party payors increasingly may demand reduced fees. In addition, there is a growing trend for third-party payors and employer-sponsored healthcare plans to take steps to shift the primary cost of care to the plan participant by increasing co-payments, co-insurance and deductibles, and these actions could discourage such patients from seeking treatment at our surgical facilities. Because some commercial third-party payors rely on all or portions of Medicare payment systems to determine payment rates, changes to government healthcare programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from commercial third-party payors. Patient volumes could decrease if we or our health system partners are unable to enter into acceptable contracts with such third-party payors, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents For the year-ended December 31, 2013, approximately 3.0% of our net patient revenues was derived from providing “out-of-network” services, where payments to us come from third-party payors with which our surgical facilities do not have contracts. In such cases, we generally charge patients a co-payment and submit claims to the payor, which typically have been paid at higher than comparable contracted rates. However, there is a trend for third-party payors to adopt out-of-network fee schedules that are more comparable to our contracted rates or to discourage their enrollees from seeking treatment at out-of-network surgical facilities. In such situations, we may be forced to choose between not providing services to out-of-network patients and accepting a payor contract with relatively low payment rates. In certain situations, we have seen an increase in case volume upon transitioning to in-network billing, although we may experience an overall decrease in revenues. We can provide no assurance that we will see a sufficient increase in volume of cases to compensate for the decrease in per case revenues where we transition to in-network billing, or that when we decline to sign a payor contract we will see a sufficient increase in payment rates to compensate for the decrease in volume of cases resulting from being out-of-network. Significant changes in our payor mix or case mix resulting from fluctuations in the types of cases performed at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our results may change from period to period due to fluctuations in payor mix or case mix or other factors relating to the type of cases performed by physicians at our facilities. Payor mix refers to the relative share of total cases provided to patients with, respectively, no insurance, commercial insurance, Medicare coverage, Medicaid coverage and workers’ compensation insurance. Since, generally speaking, we receive relatively higher payment rates from commercial and workers’ compensation insurers than Medicare and Medicaid, a significant shift in our payor mix toward a higher percentage of Medicare and Medicaid cases, which could occur for reasons beyond our control, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Case mix refers to the relative share of total cases performed by specialty, such as orthopedics, gastroenterology, pain management and otolaryngology. Generally speaking, we derive relatively higher revenues from certain types of cases. For example, orthopedic cases are generally higher revenue cases than pain management procedures, and if an orthopedic case that would have been performed at our facilities was replaced by a pain management case that was performed at our facilities, we would expect the revenue earned from that pain management case to be lower than the revenue that would have been earned for the orthopedic case. Therefore, a significant shift in our case mix toward a higher percentage of lower revenue cases, which could occur for reasons beyond our control, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. As we operate in multiple markets, each with a different competitive landscape, shifts within our payor mix or case mix may not be uniform across all of our affiliated facilities. Rather, these shifts may be concentrated within certain markets due to local competitive factors. Therefore, the results of our individual affiliated facilities, including facilities that are material to our results, may be volatile, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Payments we receive from workers’ compensation programs are subject to reduction as states implement reduced fee schedules and deal with increased budgeting and economic challenges. Payments from workers’ compensation payors represented approximately 11% of our net patient revenues for the year-ended December 31, 2013. Several states have recently considered or implemented workers’ compensation provider fee schedules. In some cases, the fee schedule rates contain lower rates than the rates our surgical facilities have historically been paid for the same services. Additionally, budgeting and economic challenges have caused some states to reduce the payments made to us under workers’ compensation programs. In 2012, California enacted legislation that reduced the reimbursement rate for patients receiving care through its workers’ compensation program by 33% beginning on January 1, 2013. In addition, North Carolina has enacted legislation to reduce its workers’ compensation reimbursement rates by 15%, beginning on April 1, 2013. Finally, Indiana has passed legislation that will reduce workers’ compensation reimbursement rates by 53%, 39 Table of Contents which is scheduled to go into effect on July 1, 2014. If the trend of states adopting lower workers’ compensation fee schedules continues, or the budgeting and economic challenges faced by states continue, resulting in reductions to reimbursement rates, such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our relationships with health systems, including not-for-profit health systems, are important to our growth strategy. If we are not able to maintain good relationships with these health systems, or enter into new relationships, we may be unable to implement our growth strategy successfully, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our business depends in part upon the success of our health system partners and the strength of our relationships with those healthcare systems. Our business could be adversely affected by any damage to those health systems’ reputation or to our relationships with them, or as a result of an irreconcilable dispute with a health system partner. At December 31, 2013, we held ownership interests in 62 facilities in partnership with 30 different health systems. Our health system relationships include local health systems, regional health systems and national health systems. We enter into co-development agreements or have informal co-development arrangements with health systems in which we agree to jointly develop a network of surgical facilities in a defined geographic area. We expect our acquisition activity to continue with the primary focus on the creation of partnerships with health systems. If we are unable to develop and maintain good relationships with such health systems, maintain our existing agreements on terms and conditions favorable to us or enter into relationships with additional health systems on favorable terms, or at all, we may be unable to implement our growth strategies successfully, and such a failure could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, we are increasingly entering into joint ventures that we do not control because we do not have a majority stake in the joint venture or otherwise do not possess sufficient contractual rights to control the entity. Our failure to control such joint ventures may impair our ability to achieve the desired operating results from such joint ventures. Material changes in revenue rulings published by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), case law or the interpretation of such rulings and case law could adversely affect our relationships with our not-for-profit health system partners and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our relationships with tax-exempt, not-for-profit health systems and the joint venture agreements that represent these relationships are structured to minimize the possibility of adverse tax consequences to the non-profit systems, such as the imposition of the unrelated business income tax or the loss of tax exemption. These relationships are generally structured with the assistance of counsel to the non-profit systems, who rely on revenue rulings published by the IRS as well as case law relevant to joint ventures between for-profit and not-for-profit healthcare entities. Material changes in these rulings and case law, or the interpretation of such rulings and case law by the IRS, could adversely affect our relationships with our not-for-profit health system partners. Further, our compliance with the rules applicable to tax-exempt entities could have an adverse impact on the margins of facilities we own in partnership with our not-for-profit health system partners. Such rules, revenue rulings, case law and interpretations may preclude us from being able to enter into joint venture agreements or new relationships with not-for-profit health systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on physician utilization of our facilities, which could decrease if we fail to maintain good relationships with physicians or due to other factors outside of our control. Our business depends upon the efforts and success of the physicians who provide medical services at our facilities, and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. These physicians are not employees of our facilities and are generally not contractually required to use our facilities. We typically do not have contracts with physicians who use our facilities, other than partnership and operating agreements with physicians who own interests in our facilities, provider agreements with physicians who provide anesthesiology services in our surgical facilities and independent contractor agreements with physicians who provide certain limited services to 40 Table of Contents the facilities, such as medical director services. Physicians who use our surgical facilities usually also use other surgery centers or hospitals. Due to technological advances, physicians may also choose to perform procedures that might otherwise be performed at our surgical facilities in their own offices, such as pain management procedures, endoscopies and cataract removals. Although many physicians who own an interest in our facilities are subject to agreements restricting them from having an ownership interest in competing facilities, these agreements do not restrict physicians from performing procedures at other facilities. Also, these agreements restricting ownership of competing facilities can be difficult to enforce, and we may be unsuccessful in preventing physicians who own an interest in our facilities from acquiring an interest in a competing facility. We also depend on the quality of care provided by the physicians who provide medical services at our facilities. While those physicians are independent contractors and not employed by us or our facilities and maintain their own liability insurance coverage, the failure of particular groups of physicians who utilize our facilities to provide quality medical care or to otherwise adhere to professional guidelines at our surgical facilities, or any damage to the reputation of a particular group of physicians with whom we are affiliated, could also damage our reputation, subject us to liability and significantly reduce our revenues. Healthcare reform and other factors are leading more physicians to accept employment by hospitals. The creation of ACOs may cause physicians to accept employment to become part of a network that includes an ACO. In addition, Medicare’s push for healthcare providers to invest in technology infrastructure to increase efficiencies may cause more physicians to move from private practice to employment with hospitals and ACOs because an individual physician or small group of physicians may view the costs associated with investing in technology as too large to bear individually. Physicians who accept employment with ACOs, hospitals or other organizations may be less likely to own, or may be contractually restricted from owning, interests in our facilities or, in some cases, restricted from using our facilities. We have had and are likely to continue to have disputes with physicians who use our facilities or own interests in our facilities. Furthermore, we may in the future have disputes with key groups of physicians and such disputes, if they were to occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, key groups of physicians may elect to leave a facility for a variety of reasons unrelated to us, including, for example, to be employed by a hospital or health system that competes with our facility. Our revenues and profitability could be reduced if we lose our relationship with key groups of physicians, or if key groups of physicians cease or reduce their use of our facilities, and we are unable to replace those groups of physicians with others who will use our facilities. The financial success of our facilities is in part dependent upon the volume of procedures performed by the physicians who use our facilities, which is affected by the economy, healthcare reform, increases in patient co-payments and deductibles and other factors outside our or their control. In addition, the physicians who use our surgical facilities may choose not to accept patients who pay for services through certain third-party payors, which could reduce our revenues. Any reduction in our revenues due to a decrease in the use by physicians of our surgical facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Physician treatment methodologies and governmental or commercial health insurance controls designed to reduce the number of surgical procedures may reduce our revenues and profitability. Controls imposed by Medicare, managed Medicare, Medicaid, managed Medicaid, employer-sponsored healthcare plans and commercial health insurance payors designed to reduce surgical volumes, in some instances referred to as “utilization review,” could adversely affect our facilities. Although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees may reduce our revenues and profitability. Additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and commercial health insurance plan design, such as plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies, each of which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to attract new physician investors, and to acquire and develop additional surgical facilities, on favorable terms. If we are unable to achieve either of these goals, our future growth could be limited. We believe that an important component of our financial performance and growth is our ability to provide physicians who use our facilities with the opportunity to purchase ownership interests in our facilities. We may not be successful in attracting new physician investment in our surgical facilities, and that failure could result in a reduction in the quality, efficiency and profitability of our facilities. Based on competitive factors and market conditions, physicians may be able to negotiate relatively higher levels of equity ownership in our facilities, consequently limiting or reducing our share of the profits from these facilities. In addition, physician ownership in our facilities is subject to certain regulatory restrictions, see “— Risks Related to Healthcare Regulation — Our surgical facilities do not satisfy the requirements for any of the safe harbors under the Anti-Kickback Statute. If we fail to comply with the Anti-Kickback Statute, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from governmental programs, which may result in a substantial loss of revenues” and “—Risks Related to Healthcare Regulation — If we fail to comply with physician self-referral laws as they are currently interpreted or may be interpreted in the future, or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur substantial monetary penalties and a significant loss of revenues.” In addition, our growth strategy includes the acquisition of existing surgical facilities and the development of new surgical facilities jointly with local physicians and, in some cases, healthcare systems and other strategic partners. From January 2010 to December 31, 2013, we acquired 13 consolidated facilities and 32 noncontrolling interests in facilities accounted for as equity method investments. If we are unable to successfully execute on this strategy in the future, our future growth could be limited. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition and development opportunities, or to complete acquisitions and new projects in a timely manner and on favorable terms. Our acquisition and development activities require substantial capital resources, and we may need to obtain additional capital or financing, from time to time, to fund these activities. As a result, we may take actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition, including incurring substantial debt with certain restrictive terms. Further, sufficient capital or financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, our ability to acquire and develop additional surgical facilities may be limited by state certificate of need programs and other regulatory restrictions on expansion. We also face significant competition from local, regional and national health systems and other owners of surgical facilities in pursuing attractive acquisition candidates. Shortages of surgery-related products, equipment and medical supplies and quality control issues with such products, equipment and medical supplies could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our case volume, case mix and profitability. Our operations depend significantly upon our ability to obtain sufficient surgery-related products, drugs, equipment and medical supplies from suppliers on a timely basis. If we are unable to obtain such necessary products, or if we fail to properly manage existing inventory levels, we would be unable to perform certain surgeries, which could adversely affect our case volume or result in a negative shift in our case mix. In addition, as a result of shortages, we could suffer, among other things, operational disruptions, disruptions in cash flows, increased costs and reductions in profitability. At times, supply shortages have occurred in our industry, and such shortages may recur from time to time. Medical supplies and services can also be subject to supplier product quality control incidents and recalls. In addition to contributing to materials shortages, product quality can affect patient care and safety. Material quality control incidents have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, for reasons beyond our control, and such incidents can negatively impact our case volume, product costs and our reputation. In addition, we may have to incur costs to resolve quality control incidents related to medical supplies and services regardless of whether they were caused by us. Our inability to obtain the necessary amount and quality of surgery-related products, equipment and medical supplies due to a quality control incident or recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 42 Table of Contents Competition for staffing, shortages of qualified personnel or other factors could increase our labor costs and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and clinical personnel, particularly nurses. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our facilities. In some markets, the lack of availability of clinical personnel, such as nurses, has become a significant operating issue facing all healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified personnel or to contract for more expensive temporary personnel. For the year-ended December 31, 2013, our salary and benefit expenses represented 34.6% of our net operating revenues. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled workers in each of the markets in which we operate. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because a significant percentage of our revenues consist of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is limited. In particular, if labor costs rise at an annual rate greater than our net annual Consumer Price Index basket update from Medicare, our results of operations and cash flows will likely be adversely affected. Any union activity at our facilities that may occur in the future could contribute to increased labor costs. Certain proposed changes in federal labor laws and the National Labor Relations Board’s modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. Although none of our teammates are currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement, to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management and medical personnel, or to control our labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition for patients, physicians, strategic relationships and commercial payor contracts. The healthcare business is highly competitive, and each of the individual geographic areas in which we operate has a different competitive landscape. In each of our markets we compete with other healthcare providers for patients and in contracting with commercial payors. In addition, because the number of physicians available to utilize and invest in our facilities is finite, we face intense competition from other surgery centers, hospitals, health systems and other healthcare providers in recruiting physicians to utilize and invest in our facilities. We are in competition with other surgery centers, hospitals and healthcare systems in the communities we serve to attract patients and provide them with the care they need. There are hospitals and health systems that compete with us in each market in which we operate, and many of them have more established relationships with physicians and payors than we do. To the extent that a majority of physicians within an individual community or market decide to partner with a competing surgery center, hospital or health system and not with us, our affiliated facility in such community may become unprofitable and the value of this asset may decrease, even drastically. In addition, other companies are currently in the same or similar business of developing, acquiring and operating surgical facilities, or may decide to enter this business. We also compete with some of these companies for entry into strategic relationships with health systems and physicians. Moreover, many physicians develop surgical facilities without a corporate partner, using consultants who perform services that we often perform for a fee and who do not take an equity interest in the ongoing operations of the facility. As a result of the differing competitive factors within the markets in which we operate, the individual results of our facilities may be volatile. If we are unable to compete effectively with any of these entities or groups, or to attract a sufficient number of physicians to utilize or invest in our facilities, we may be unable to implement our business strategies successfully, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We often are subject to malpractice and related legal claims, and we could be required to pay significant damages in connection with those claims, which may not be covered by insurance. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to legal actions alleging malpractice or related legal claims arising out of the treatment of patients at our facilities. Many of these actions involve large monetary 43 Table of Contents claims and significant defense costs. In some cases, it may be difficult to control the level of risk in this area. For example, it is possible that our facilities could inadvertently purchase tainted products from ostensibly reputable suppliers. Other providers are facing substantial litigation costs, and could face substantial damages, in connection with medical malpractice and products liability claims associated with the purchase of tainted epidural steroids, the administration of which by ASCs and other types of providers resulted in the recent nationwide meningitis outbreak. We maintain liability insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate for our operations, including professional and general liability insurance that provides coverage on a claims-made basis of $1.0 million per occurrence and $3.0 million in annual aggregate coverage per surgical facility. We also maintain umbrella liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $10.0 million and excess liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $15.0 million. See “Business — Operational Risks and Insurance” for additional information regarding our insurance coverage. However, this insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us, and insurance coverage may not continue to be available at a cost satisfactory to us to allow for the maintenance of adequate levels of insurance. If one or more successful claims against us were not covered by or exceeded the coverage of our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our case volume and case mix may be adversely affected due to current and future economic conditions. The U.S. economy continues to experience difficult conditions. Our case volume and case mix may be adversely affected by patients’ inability to pay for procedures in our facilities. Higher numbers of unemployed individuals generally translate into more individuals without healthcare insurance to help pay for procedures, thereby increasing the potential for persons to elect not to have procedures performed. However, a majority of the procedures performed in our surgical facilities are not considered truly elective in nature. Therefore, even procedures normally thought to be non-elective may be delayed or may not be performed if the patient cannot afford the procedure due to a lack of insurance or money to pay their portion of our facility’s fee. In addition, the difficult conditions of the U.S. economy have adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the budgets of individual states and the Federal government, which has resulted in and could continue to result in attempts to reduce payments made to us by Federal and state government healthcare programs, including Medicare, military services, Medicaid and workers’ compensation programs, a reduction in the scope of services covered by those programs and an increase in taxes and assessments on our activities. In the past, the Federal government has entered a shutdown that suspended services deemed non-essential as a result of a failure by Congress to enact regular appropriations. A prolonged shutdown in the future could cause significant regulatory delays, including delays in our ability to obtain Medicare billing numbers or achieve Medicare certification for new facilities. Furthermore, if the Federal government debt incurrence ceiling expires and is not raised by Congress, the Federal government could default on its debts. A prolonged shutdown or a failure to raise the debt ceiling would negatively affect the U.S. economy and could have a material adverse effect on the healthcare industry, our business, results of operations or financial condition. Many of our facilities are concentrated in certain states, which makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions in those states. Our revenues are particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions in certain states where we have a greater concentration of facilities. For the year-ended December 31, 2013, our facilities located in North Carolina, California and Texas represented approximately 14%, 14% and 12%, respectively, of our net patient revenues. Additionally, facilities located in each of Alabama, Alaska, Connecticut, Florida and Idaho represented in excess of 5% of our net patient revenues for the year-ended December 31, 2013. Of our 60 nonconsolidated facilities accounted for as equity method investments, as of December 31, 2013, 26 of these facilities were located in California and 12 of these facilities were located in Indiana. If there were an adverse regulatory, economic or other development in any of the states in which we have a higher concentration of facilities, our case volumes could decline in these states or there could be other unanticipated adverse impacts on our business in those states, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 44 Table of Contents We have a history of net losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have historically incurred periods of net losses, including net losses of approximately $51.3 million in 2013, $20.0 million in 2012 and $9.7 million in 2011. We cannot assure you that our revenues will grow or that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our ability to achieve profitability will be affected by the other risks and uncertainties described in this section and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If we are not able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability, our business will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. Certain of our partnership and operating agreements contain termination dates that will require us to amend and possibly renegotiate such agreements. Certain of our LP agreements, general partnership agreements and LLC operating agreements have termination dates by which the agreement expires by its terms. In some cases, termination dates are required under the applicable state law governing the form of entity. In these situations we would attempt to negotiate an amendment to the agreement to prevent such termination if we wish to continue the business. Any such amendment could also require us to renegotiate material terms of the agreements with our physician and health system partners. There is no guarantee that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements on terms that are favorable or satisfactory to us or at all. If we are unable to amend or renew our agreements on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. None of our operating agreements have termination dates in 2014. Certain of our partnership and operating agreements contain provisions giving rights to our partners and other members that may be adverse to our interests. Certain of the agreements governing the LPs, general partnerships and LLCs through which we own and operate our facilities contain provisions that give our partners or other members rights that may, in certain circumstances, be adverse to our interests. These rights include, but are not limited to, rights to purchase our interest in the partnership or LLC, rights to require us to purchase the interests of our partners or other members, or rights requiring the consent of our partners and other members prior to our transferring our ownership interest in a facility or prior to a change in control of us or certain of our subsidiaries. With respect to these purchase rights, the agreements generally include a specified formula or methodology to determine the applicable purchase price, which may or may not reflect fair market value. In one case, two agreements governing seven facilities that we co-own with Sutter Health give Sutter Health the absolute right to purchase our proportionate interest in the facilities, including our ongoing profits from managing the facilities, after the passage of a certain amount of time. The first of these rights will arise in 2017. The purchase price of our interest will be the fair market value as determined by an independent appraisal. One of these agreements further provides that if Sutter Health forgoes the right to acquire our interest upon the initial trigger date, such right will renew and we must offer Sutter Health the same opportunity every three years. The other agreement gives Sutter Health an ongoing right to purchase our proportionate interest in one facility after the expiration of seven years following the commencement of operations of the center. There are an additional two agreements governing four facilities co-owned with Sutter Health under which Sutter Health has the right to purchase up to 10% of our ownership interest in one facility and up to 10% of our ownership interest in our joint venture entity that owns one facility, also at fair market value. Although the stated purchase price for these acquisitions is fair market value, the purchase of our interests by our partner will prevent us from continuing to recognize ongoing profits from owning and managing these facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to the purchase and consent rights described above, almost all of our partnership and operating agreements contain restrictions on actions that we can take, even though we may be the general partner or the managing member. Examples of these restrictions include the rights of our partners and other members to approve the sale of substantially all of the assets of the partnership or LLC, to dissolve the partnership or LLC, to 45 Table of Contents appoint a new or additional general partner or managing member and to amend the partnership or operating agreements. Many of our agreements also restrict our ability in certain instances to compete with our existing facilities or with our partners. Where we hold only a limited partner or a non-managing member interest, the general partner or managing member may take certain actions without our consent, although we typically have certain protective rights to approve major decisions such as the sale of substantially all of the assets of the entity, dissolution of the partnership or LLC and the amendment of the partnership or operating agreement. These management and governance rights held by our partners and other members limit and restrict our ability to make unilateral decisions about the management and operation of the facilities without the approval of our partners and other members. We may have a special legal responsibility to the holders of ownership interests in the entities through which we own our facilities, which may conflict with, and prevent us from acting solely in, our own best interests. We generally hold our ownership interests in facilities through limited or general partnerships, LLCs or LLPs in which we maintain an ownership interest along with physicians and, in some cases, health systems. As general partner and manager of most of these entities, we may have a special responsibility, known as a fiduciary duty, to manage these entities in the best interests of the other interest holders. We may encounter conflicts between our responsibility to the other interest holders and our own best interests. For example, we have entered into management agreements to provide management services to our surgical facilities in exchange for a fee. Disputes may arise as to the nature of the services to be provided or the amount of the fee to be paid. In these cases, we may be obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the disputes and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests. Disputes may also arise between us and our physician investors with respect to a particular business decision or regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the applicable partnership agreement or operating agreement. We seek to avoid these disputes but have not implemented any measures to resolve these conflicts if they arise. If we are unable to resolve a dispute on terms favorable or satisfactory to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty operating and integrating newly acquired or developed facilities. If we acquire or develop additional facilities, we may experience difficulty in retaining or integrating their operations, key physicians, systems and personnel. In some acquisitions, we may have to renegotiate, or risk losing, one or more of the facility’s commercial payor contracts. We may also be unable to immediately collect the accounts receivable of an acquired facility while we align the payors’ payment systems and accounts with our own systems. Certain transactions can require licensure changes which, in turn, result in disruptions in payment for services. Moreover, the integration of acquired facilities may result in the diversion of our management’s time from our existing operations. If we are not successful in integrating newly acquired surgical facilities, we may not realize the potential benefits of such acquisitions. Likewise, if we are not able to integrate acquired facilities’ operations and personnel with ours in a timely and efficient manner, then the potential benefits of the transaction may not be realized. In particular, if we experience the loss of key personnel or if the effort devoted to the integration of acquired facilities diverts significant management or other resources from other operational activities, our operations could be impaired. In addition, we may acquire facilities with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. Although we maintain professional and general liability insurance that provides coverage on a claims-made basis of $1.0 million per occurrence and $3.0 million in annual aggregate coverage per surgical facility, we do not maintain insurance specifically covering all unknown or contingent liabilities that may have occurred prior to the acquisition of facilities. See “Business — Operational Risks and Insurance” for additional information regarding our insurance coverage. In some cases, our right to indemnification for these liabilities from the seller may be subject to negotiated limits or limits on our ability to enforce indemnification rights. 46 Table of Contents In developing new facilities, we may be unable to attract physicians to use our facilities or to enter into favorable contracts with commercial payors. In addition, newly developed facilities typically incur net losses during the initial periods of operation and, unless and until their case loads grow, they generally experience lower total revenues and operating margins than established facilities. Integrating a new facility can be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management and other key teammates. Growth of patient receivables or deterioration in the ability to collect on these accounts, due to changes in economic conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The primary collection risks with respect to our patient receivables relate to patient accounts for which the primary third-party payor has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and co-payments) remain outstanding. Our provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. We provide for bad debts principally based upon the type of payor and the age of the receivables. Our allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2013 and 2012 represented approximately 13.0% and 7.2% of our accounts receivable balance, respectively. Due to the difficulty in assessing future trends, including the effects of changes in economic conditions, we could be required to increase our provision for doubtful accounts. An increase in the amount of patient receivables or a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Because our senior management has been key to our growth and success, we may be adversely affected if we lose the services of our senior management. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key financial and operating teammates. Although we have employment agreements with senior management, we do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies for any of our senior management. Competition for senior management generally, and within the healthcare industry specifically, is intense, and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need if we were to lose an existing member of senior management. Many of our senior management and other financial and operating key teammates were recruited by us specifically due to their industry experience or specific expertise. The loss of senior management or other key teammates, without adequate replacements, or our inability to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified senior management or other key teammates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on our controlling stockholder. We have in recent years depended on our relationship with TPG, our controlling stockholder, to help guide our business plan and we continue to rely on TPG’s significant expertise in financial matters. This expertise has been available to us through the representatives TPG has on the Company’s board of directors. Representatives of TPG have the ability to appoint, and have appointed, a majority of the seats on our board of directors. In the future, TPG may elect to reduce its ownership in our company or reduce its involvement on our board of directors, which could reduce or eliminate the benefits we have historically achieved through our relationship with it. See “— Risks Related to Our Common Stock — TPG has significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control, and which may result in conflicts with us or you in the future.” 47 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our available cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $645.7 million of indebtedness (excluding capital leases), which includes $602.5 million under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities (as defined herein). We also have $132.3 million of unused commitments under our Class B Revolving Credit Facility. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.7 million in letters of credit outstanding. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under such instruments; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less highly leveraged and therefore able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness prevents us from exploiting; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because a portion of our debt under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities bears interest at floating rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. In addition, our Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants, if not cured or waived, could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of or default under any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Utilization of the Class B Revolving Credit Facility is subject to compliance with a total leverage ratio test. In addition, our Senior Secured Credit Facilities require prepayment of the outstanding indebtedness thereunder if we have certain excess cash flow, as described therein. Finally, our Senior Secured Credit Facilities require the repayment in full of all amounts outstanding thereunder upon a change of control, as defined therein. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness. Although the Amended Credit Agreement (as defined herein) governing our Senior 48 Table of Contents Secured Credit Facilities contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our or our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we face would be increased. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to pay interest on and principal of our debt obligations principally depends upon our operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. In addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In particular, the constituent documents governing many of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries limit, under certain circumstances, our ability to access the cash generated by those subsidiaries in a timely manner. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or capital expenditures or seeking to raise additional capital. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt, if at all, will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance our obligations at all or on commercially reasonable terms, could affect our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. The Amended Credit Agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities includes covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur liens; • incur or assume additional debt or guarantees or issue or sell certain types of preferred stock; • pay dividends or make redemptions and repurchases with respect to capital stock; • prepay, or make redemptions and repurchases of, subordinated debt; • make loans or investments; and • engage in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales, sale/leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates. 49 Table of Contents The operating restrictions and covenants in these debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, alternative sources of financing or reductions in expenditures. In addition, the outstanding indebtedness under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities is, subject to certain exceptions, secured by security interests in substantially all of our, SCA’s and the other Guarantors’ (as defined herein) assets. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in the Amended Credit Agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities would result in a default, and our lenders may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce and foreclose on their security interest and liquidate some or all of such pledged assets. The lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. We are exposed to market risk related to interest rate changes. We are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates as a result of the floating interest rates applicable to the outstanding debt under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, including our $214.4 million Class B Term Loan due December 30, 2017 and our $388.1 million Class C Term Loan due June 30, 2018. The interest rate on the Class B Term Loan and the Class C Term Loan at December 31, 2013 was 4.25%. The weighted average interest rate for the outstanding debt under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities as of December 31, 2013 was 4.26%. Borrowings under each portion of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities bear interest at a base rate or at LIBOR, as elected by us, plus an applicable margin. The base rate is determined by reference to the higher of (i) the prime rate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and (ii) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50%. The LIBOR rate is determined by reference to the interest rate for dollar deposits in the London interbank market for the interest period relevant to such borrowings. There is no cap on the maximum interest rate for the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. As of December 31, 2013, we held forward starting interest rate swaps hedging interest rate risk on $240.0 million of our variable rate debt to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. These forward starting interest rate swaps, which are swaps that are entered into at a specified trade date but do not begin to accrue interest until a future start date, extend the interest rate swaps that we terminated in 2012 and 2013. These swaps are “receive floating/pay fixed” instruments, meaning we receive floating rate payments, which fluctuate based on LIBOR, from the counterparty and provide payments to the counterparty at a fixed rate, the result of which is to convert the interest rate of a portion of our floating rate debt into fixed rate debt in order to limit the variability of interest-related payments caused by changes in LIBOR. See Item 7A — “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We make significant loans to the partnerships and LLCs that own and operate certain of our facilities. For certain of our surgical facilities, indebtedness at the partnership or LLC level is funded through intercompany loans that we provide. Through many of these loans, which totaled approximately $27.6 million to 27 surgical facilities as of December 31, 2013, we have a security interest in the partnership’s or LLC’s assets. However, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if our surgical facilities are unable to repay these intercompany loans. We are liable for certain debts and other obligations of the partnerships and limited liability companies that own and operate certain of our facilities. In certain of the general partnerships, LPs, LLPs or LLCs in which one of our affiliates is the general partner or managing member, our affiliate is liable for some or all of the debts and other obligations of the entity. Our partners or co-members are often required to guarantee their pro rata share of any indebtedness or lease agreements to which the entity is a party in proportion to their ownership interest in the entity. As of December 31, 2013, we guaranteed a total of $37.6 million of debt, consisting of $35.1 million at consolidated facilities and $2.5 million in the aggregate at nonconsolidated and managed-only facilities. For more information regarding guarantees made to nonconsolidated or managed-only facilities, see “Management’s Discussion and 50 Table of Contents Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Off-Balance Sheet Transactions.” There can be no assurance that a third-party lender or lessor would seek performance of the guarantees rather than seek repayment from us of any obligation of the general partnership, LP, LLP or LLC if there is a default, or that the physician partners or co-members would have sufficient assets to satisfy their guarantee obligations. We may recognize impairments on long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, or recognize impairments on our equity method investments. Our balance sheet at December 31, 2013 contained intangible assets, including goodwill, of $806.0 million. Future acquisitions that result in the recognition of additional long-lived and intangible assets would cause an increase in these types of assets. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any potential impairment to the carrying value of these assets could exist. Estimates of the future cash flows associated with the assets are critical to the impairment assessments. Changes in estimates based on changed economic conditions or business strategies could result in material impairment charges and therefore have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We recognize an impairment charge when the decline in the estimated fair value of our equity method investments in our nonconsolidated facilities below their book value are judged to be other-than-temporary. Significant judgment is used to identify events or circumstances that would likely have a significant adverse effect on the future prospects of an equity method investment. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the facility. Our current evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments reflects our intent to maintain our equity method investments for a reasonable period of time sufficient for a forecasted recovery of fair value. However, our intent to hold certain of these investments may change in future periods as a result of facts and circumstances impacting the operations of the facility. If our intent changes and we do not expect the equity method investment to fully be recoverable, we will write down the investment to its fair value in the period that our intent changes. If we are unable to manage and secure our information systems effectively, our operations could be disrupted. Our operations depend significantly on effective information systems, which require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. Moreover, our growth and acquisition strategy will require frequent transitions and integration of various information systems. If we are unable to properly integrate other information systems or expand our current information systems, we could suffer, among other things, operational disruptions, disruptions in cash flows and increases in administrative expenses. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs or lead to fines and financial losses. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. Although we believe that we have appropriate information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. We may not be able to fully realize the value of our net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2013, we had unused federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $263.7 million. Such losses expire in various amounts at varying times beginning in 2027. Unless 51 Table of Contents they expire, these NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our income taxes otherwise payable. While we believe we will be able to use a substantial portion of these tax benefits before they expire, no such assurances can be provided. For further discussion of our NOLs see Note 13, Income Taxes, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2013, we maintained a full valuation allowance of $166.1 million against our deferred tax assets. On a quarterly basis, we assess the likelihood of realization of our deferred tax assets considering all available evidence, both positive and negative. While we have concluded that a full valuation allowance continued to be appropriate as of December 31, 2013, we are continually monitoring actual and forecasted earnings. If there is a change in management’s assessment of the amount of deferred income tax assets that is realizable, adjustments to the valuation allowance will be made in future periods. If reversal of the valuation allowance does occur, we will need to continue to monitor results. If our expectations for future operating results on a consolidated basis or at the state jurisdiction level vary from actual results due to changes in healthcare regulations, general economic conditions, or other factors, we may need to adjust the valuation allowance, for all or a portion of our deferred tax assets. Our income tax expense in future periods will be reduced or increased to the extent of offsetting decreases or increases, respectively, in our valuation allowance in the period when the change in circumstances occurs. These changes could have a significant impact on our future earnings. Section 382 (“Section 382”) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to use its NOLs to reduce its tax liability. An “ownership change” is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of a corporation’s “stock” by its “5-percent shareholders” (as defined in Section 382) over a rolling three-year period based upon each of those shareholder’s lowest percentage of stock owned during such period. It is possible that future transactions, not all of which would be within our control (including a possible sale by TPG or MTS of some or all of their respective shares of our common stock), could cause us to undergo an ownership change as defined in Section 382. In that event, we would not be able to use our pre-ownership-change NOLs in excess of the limitation imposed by Section 382. At this time, we do not believe these limitations will affect our ability to use any NOLs before they expire, but we cannot assure you that will be the case. If our ability to utilize our NOLs to offset taxable income generated in the future is subject to this limitation, it could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our facilities may be adversely impacted by weather and other factors beyond our control. The financial results of our facilities may be adversely impacted by adverse weather conditions, such as tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, or other factors beyond our control, such as wildfires. These weather conditions or other factors could disrupt patient scheduling, displace our patients, teammates and physician partners and force certain of our facilities to close temporarily or for an extended period of time. In certain markets, including Southern and Northern California, we have a large concentration of surgery centers that may be simultaneously affected by adverse weather conditions, earthquakes, wildfires or other events beyond our control. Risks Related to Healthcare Regulation We are currently unable to predict the impact of the Health Reform Law, which represents a significant change to the healthcare industry. The Health Reform Law will change how healthcare services are covered, delivered and reimbursed through, among other things, expanded coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in Medicare program spending and the establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality. The Health Reform Law also reforms certain aspects of health insurance, expands existing efforts to tie Medicare and Medicaid payments to performance and quality and contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement. Due to the 52 Table of Contents complexity of the Health Reform Law, the many factors involved in its implementation and ongoing court challenges on certain issues, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the Health Reform Law on the healthcare industry. The Health Reform Law was signed into law in March 2010; however, many of its measures do not take effect until 2014 or later and other measures have been delayed. For example, the date by which individuals must have obtained qualified health insurance coverage in order to avoid tax penalties has been delayed until March 31, 2014. In addition, the Health Reform Law’s employer mandate, pursuant to which certain larger employers that do not offer health insurance benefits to their employees will be required to make “shared responsibility payments” if an employee obtains government-subsidized coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplace, will be delayed until January 1, 2015, for employers with 100 or more employees, and until January 1, 2016, for employers with 50 to 99 employees. Further, it is unclear how many states will decline to implement the Medicaid expansion provisions of the Health Reform Law. In June 2012, the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the individual mandate provisions of the Health Reform Law, but struck down provisions that would have allowed HHS to penalize states that do not implement the Medicaid expansion provisions of the law with the loss of existing Medicaid funding. As a result, some states may choose not to implement the Medicaid expansion, and fewer individuals will be covered by a state Medicaid program than would have been covered had the Supreme Court upheld the Health Reform Law in its entirety. In addition, the potential impact of the Health Insurance Marketplace, the system of state and federal health insurance exchanges through which qualified health insurance coverage may be obtained, is uncertain. The purpose of the Health Insurance Marketplace is to provide consumers, including individuals that do not currently have health insurance, with a convenient and transparent marketplace through which individual health insurance products may be purchased. The Health Insurance Marketplace became operational on October 1, 2013, with insurance coverage purchased through the Marketplace taking effect as early as January 1, 2014. It is possible that rates payable to providers under health insurance policies purchased by an individual through the Health Insurance Marketplace will be lower than rates payable under policies purchased by an employer for a group. It is also possible that some employers will opt to cease providing group coverage and make “shared responsibility payments,” leaving their employees to purchase individual policies through the Marketplace. The impact of the Health Insurance Marketplace on the market for individual policies, and the rates payable to providers under health insurance products offered through the Marketplace, is uncertain. The Health Reform Law makes several significant changes to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, provides additional enforcement tools for the Federal government, increases cooperation between federal agencies by establishing mechanisms for the sharing of information and enhances criminal and administrative penalties for non-compliance. For example, the Health Reform Law: (i) provides $350 million in increased federal funding to fight healthcare fraud, waste and abuse; (ii) expands the scope of the Recovery Audit Contractor program to include both the Medicaid and Medicare Advantage plans; (iii) authorizes HHS, in consultation with the OIG, to suspend Medicare and Medicaid payments to a provider of services or a supplier “pending an investigation of a credible allegation of fraud;” (iv) provides Medicare contractors with additional flexibility to conduct random prepayment reviews; and (v) strengthens the rules for returning overpayments made by governmental health programs, including expanding liability under the FCA to extend to failures to timely repay identified overpayments. The Health Reform Law also places limitations on an exception to the Stark Law that allows physicians to invest in hospitals if the physicians’ investments are in the entire hospital and not just a department of the hospital (the “whole hospital exception”). Among other things, the Health Reform Law prohibits hospitals from increasing the percentages of the total value of the ownership interests held in the hospital by physicians after March 23, 2010, and places restrictions on the ability of a hospital subject to the whole hospital exception to add operating rooms, procedure rooms and beds. As a result of the Health Reform Law, we expect enhanced scrutiny of healthcare providers’ compliance with state and federal regulations, increased enforcement of infection control standards and implementation of 53 Table of Contents other quality control measures. In addition, the Health Reform Law includes certain value-based purchasing initiatives, and we expect such initiatives, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common among governmental and commercial payors. Pursuant to the Health Reform Law, HHS has submitted a report to Congress outlining HHS’s plan to implement a value-based purchasing program for ASCs that would tie Medicare payments to quality and efficient measures. In addition, CMS has promulgated three national coverage determinations that prevent Medicare from paying for certain serious, preventable medical errors that occur in a healthcare facility. Several commercial payors also do not reimburse providers for certain preventable adverse events. CMS has also established an ASC Quality Reporting Program. Failure to report quality data according to CMS requirements may result in a reduction of the Medicare payment rates in subsequent years. An increased emphasis by government and accreditation agencies on the accuracy of quality reporting, quality performance and more rigorous performance standards and oversight could result in a reduction of the payments and fees that we receive from Medicare. In addition, the Health Reform Law mandates reductions in reimbursement, such as adjustments to the hospital inpatient and outpatient prospective payment system market basket updates and productivity adjustments to Medicare’s annual inflation updates, which became effective in 2010 and 2012. Further, additional cuts to Medicare and Medicaid payments may occur depending on government response to economic conditions. Because of the many fluid and dynamic variables involved, we are currently unable to predict the net effect of the Health Reform Law and other associated changes within the healthcare industry on us or our operations. Further, it is unclear how efforts to repeal or revise the Health Reform Law will be resolved or what the impact, if any, would be of any resulting changes to the law. However, depending on how the Health Reform Law is ultimately interpreted, amended and implemented, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with or otherwise incur liabilities under the numerous federal and state laws and regulations relating to the operation of our facilities, we could incur significant penalties or other costs or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are subject to many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels in the markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations require that our facilities meet various licensing, certification and other requirements, including, but not limited to, those relating to: • ownership and control of our facilities; • qualification of medical and support persons; • pricing of, billing for and coding of services and properly handling overpayments; • the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures; • maintenance and preservation of medical records; • financial arrangements between referral sources and our facilities; • the protection of privacy, including patient and credit card information; • provision of emergency services; • antitrust; • state licensing standards; and • environmental protection, health and safety. If we fail or have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, cease and desist orders, forfeiture of amounts owed and recoupment of amounts paid to us by governmental or commercial payors, loss of licenses necessary to operate and disqualification from Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored healthcare programs. 54 Table of Contents We do not control compliance programs at certain of our nonconsolidated facilities; however, if there are failures in compliance or regulatory violations at those facilities, such failures or violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In pursuing our growth strategy, we may seek to expand our presence into states in which we do not currently operate. In new geographic areas, we may encounter laws and regulations that differ from those applicable to our current operations. If we are unwilling or unable to comply with these legal requirements in a cost-effective manner, we will not be able to expand into new states. In addition, some of the governmental and regulatory bodies that regulate us are considering or may in the future consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could detrimentally affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, either of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If laws or regulations governing physician ownership of our facilities change, we may be obligated to purchase some or all of the ownership interests of our physician partners or renegotiate some of our partnership and operating agreements with our physician partners and management agreements with our surgical facilities. Regulatory changes or changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations may obligate us to purchase all of the ownership interests of the physician investors in partnerships or LLCs that own and operate our facilities. Such changes would include those that: • make illegal the referral of patients to our facilities by physician investors; • create a substantial likelihood that cash distributions to physician investors from the partnerships or LLCs through which we operate our facilities would be illegal; or • make illegal the ownership by the physician investors of interests in the partnerships or LLCs through which we own and operate our facilities. In addition, some of our partnership and operating agreements with our physician partners and management agreements with our facilities require us to renegotiate such agreements upon the occurrence of various fundamental regulatory changes or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations and provide for termination of such agreements if such renegotiations are not successful. We cannot control whether or when any of these regulatory events might occur. In the event we are required to purchase all of the physicians’ ownership interests in our facilities, our existing capital resources would not be sufficient for us to meet this obligation. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” These obligations and the possible termination of our partnership, operating and management agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Medicare and Medicaid programs, which together provide a material portion of our net patient revenues, are particularly susceptible to legislative and regulatory changes that could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive and prospective rate adjustments, spending freezes, federal and state funding reductions and administrative rulings and interpretations concerning, without limitation, patient eligibility requirements, funding levels and the method of calculating payments or reimbursements. Any of these factors could adversely affect the level and timing of payments to our surgical facilities. For the year-ended December 31, 2013, payments from Medicare and Medicaid represented approximately 20% and 3% of our net patient revenues, respectively. 55 Table of Contents In recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to healthcare providers for certain services under the Medicare program. The Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “BCA”) requires automatic spending reductions of $1.2 trillion for federal fiscal years 2013 through 2021, minus any deficit reductions enacted by Congress and debt service costs. The percentage reduction for Medicare may not be more than 2% for a fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all Medicare programs. The BCA-mandated spending reductions went into effect on March 1, 2013. We are unable to predict how these spending reductions will be structured, what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by Congress or whether Congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts. These reductions will be in addition to reductions mandated by the Health Reform Law, which provides for material reductions in the growth of Medicare program spending. Many states must operate with balanced budgets, and the Medicaid program is often the largest budget expenditure for many states. The current economic environment has increased the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in decreased spending or decreased spending growth for Medicaid programs in many states. Some states that provide Medicaid supplemental payments are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with CMS to replace these programs, which could result in Medicaid supplemental payments being reduced or eliminated. We are unable to predict the effect of future government healthcare funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payors are reduced or if the scope of services covered by governmental payors is limited there could be, in either case, a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our surgical facilities do not satisfy the requirements for any of the safe harbors under the Anti-Kickback Statute. If we fail to comply with the Anti-Kickback Statute, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from governmental programs, which may result in a substantial loss of revenues. The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally funded healthcare program. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad in scope, and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. Courts have found a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute if just one purpose of the remuneration is to generate referrals, even if there are other lawful purposes. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, plus three times the remuneration involved or the amount claimed and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our exclusion from participation in such programs would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have also adopted laws, similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute, that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals, some of which apply regardless of the source of payment for care. These statutes typically impose criminal and civil penalties, including the loss of a license to do business in the state. In July 1991, HHS issued final regulations defining various “safe harbors” under the Anti-Kickback Statute. Business arrangements that meet the requirements of the safe harbors are deemed to be in compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute. Business arrangements that do not meet the safe harbor requirements do not necessarily violate the Anti-Kickback Statute, but may be subject to scrutiny by the Federal government to determine compliance. Two of the original safe harbors issued in 1991 apply to business arrangements similar to those used in connection with our surgical facilities. However, the structure of the entities operating our facilities generally does not satisfy all of the requirements of either such safe harbor. In November 1999, HHS issued final regulations creating additional safe harbor provisions, including a safe harbor that applies to physician ownership of, or investment interests in, ASCs. However, our ASC arrangements do not comply with all of the requirements of the ASC safe harbor and, therefore, are not immune from government review or prosecution. 56 Table of Contents Further, we employ dedicated marketing personnel whose job functions include the recruitment of physicians to practice surgery at our centers. These teammates are paid a base salary plus a productivity bonus. We believe our employment arrangements with these teammates are consistent with a safe harbor provision designed to protect payments made to employees. However, a government agency or private party may assert a contrary position. Although we believe that our business arrangements do not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or similar state laws, a government agency or a private party may assert a contrary position. Additionally, new federal or state laws may be enacted that would cause our relationships with our physician partners to become illegal or result in the imposition of penalties against us or our facilities. If any of our business arrangements with physician partners were alleged or deemed to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or similar laws, or if new federal or state laws were enacted rendering these arrangements illegal, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with physician self-referral laws as they are currently interpreted or may be interpreted in the future, or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur substantial monetary penalties and a significant loss of revenues. The Stark Law prohibits a physician from making a referral to an entity for the furnishing of certain “designated health services” otherwise payable under Medicare or Medicaid if the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has a financial relationship with the entity, such as an ownership interest or compensation arrangement, unless an exception applies. The Stark Law also prohibits entities that provide designated health services otherwise payable by Medicare or Medicaid from billing the Medicare and Medicaid programs for any items or services that result from a prohibited referral and requires the entities to refund amounts received for items or services provided pursuant to the prohibited referral. HHS, acting through CMS, has promulgated regulations implementing the Stark Law. These regulations exclude health services provided by an ASC from the definition of “designated health services” if the services are included in the facility’s composite Medicare payment rate. Therefore, the Stark Law’s self-referral prohibition generally does not apply to health services provided by an ASC. However, if the ASC is separately billing Medicare for designated health services that are not covered under the ASC’s composite Medicare payment rate, or if either the ASC or an affiliated physician is performing (and billing Medicare) for procedures that involve designated health services that Medicare has not designated as an ASC service, the Stark Law’s self-referral prohibition would apply and such services could implicate the Stark Law. We believe that our operations do not violate the Stark Law, as currently interpreted. All services provided by our ASCs that would otherwise constitute designated health services are reimbursed by Medicare as part of the composite payment rate and are thus subject to an exception from the Stark Law, with the exception of implants. The Stark Law provides for a special exception for implants, such as intraocular lenses and artificial joints, furnished in ASCs as long as certain regulatory requirements are met. These requirements provide that the implant must be implanted by the referring physician or a member of his or her group practice, that the implant be implanted during a surgical procedure reimbursed as an ASC procedure by Medicare, that the arrangement for the furnishing of the implant not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute and that the billing for the implant be conducted legally. In addition, we believe that physician ownership of ASCs is not prohibited by similar self-referral statutes enacted at the state level. However, the Stark Law and similar state statutes are subject to different interpretations with respect to many important provisions. Moreover, the Stark Law applies to our five surgical hospitals. Violations of these self-referral laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including large civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. If physician self-referral laws are interpreted differently or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur significant sanctions and loss of revenues, or we could have to change our arrangements and operations in a way that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 57 Table of Contents Federal law restricts the ability of our surgical hospitals to expand surgical capacity. The Stark Law includes an exception that permits physicians to refer Medicare and Medicaid patients to hospitals in which they have an ownership interest if certain requirements are met. However, the Health Reform Law dramatically curtailed this exception and prohibits physician ownership in hospitals that did not have a Medicare provider agreement by December 31, 2010. This prohibition does not apply to our five surgical hospitals, each of which had a Medicare provider agreement in place prior to December 31, 2010 and are therefore able to continue operating with their existing ownership structure. However, the Health Reform Law prohibits “grandfathered” hospitals from increasing their percentage of physician ownership, and it limits to a certain extent their ability to grow, because it prohibits such hospitals from increasing the aggregate number of inpatient beds, operating rooms and procedure rooms. Companies within the healthcare industry continue to be the subject of federal and state audits and investigations, and we may be subject to such audits and investigations, including actions for false and other improper claims. Federal and state government agencies, as well as commercial payors, have increased their auditing and administrative, civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare organizations. These audits and investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including the following: cost reporting and billing practices; quality of care; financial reporting; financial relationships with referral sources; medical necessity of services provided; and classification of the level of care provided, including proper classification of inpatient admissions, observation services and outpatient care. In addition, the OIG and the DOJ have, from time to time, undertaken national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. The Federal government is authorized to impose criminal, civil and administrative penalties on any person or entity that files a false claim for payment from the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Claims filed with private insurers can also lead to criminal and civil penalties. While the criminal statutes are generally reserved for instances of fraudulent intent, the Federal government is applying its criminal, civil and administrative penalty statutes in an ever-expanding range of circumstances, including claiming payment for unnecessary services if the claimant merely should have known the services were unnecessary and claiming payment for low-quality services if the claimant should have known that the care was substandard. In addition, a violation of the Stark Law or the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in liability under the FCA. Over the past several years, the Federal government has accused an increasing number of healthcare providers of violating the FCA, which prohibits a person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim to the Federal government. The statute defines “knowingly” to include not only actual knowledge of a claim’s falsity, but also reckless disregard for or intentional ignorance of the truth or falsity of a claim. Violators of the FCA are subject to severe financial penalties, including treble damages and per claim penalties in excess of $10,000. Because our facilities perform hundreds or thousands of similar procedures each year for which they are paid by Medicare, and since the statute of limitations for such claims extends for six years under normal circumstances (and possibly as long as ten years in the event of failure to discover material facts), a repetitive billing error or cost reporting error could result in significant, material repayments and civil or criminal penalties. Under the “qui tam,” or whistleblower, provisions of the FCA, private parties may bring actions on behalf of the Federal government. These private parties, often referred to as relators, are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government through trial or settlement. These qui tam cases are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information contained in the complaint are the relator, the Federal government and the presiding court. It is possible that qui tam lawsuits have been filed against us and that we are unaware of such filings. Both direct enforcement activity by the government and whistleblower lawsuits under the FCA have increased significantly in recent years; thus, the risk that we will have to defend a false claims action, pay significant fines or be excluded from the Medicare and Medicaid programs has increased. In addition, 58 Table of Contents under the Health Reform Law, if we receive an overpayment, we must report and refund the overpayment before the later of sixty days after the overpayment was identified or the date any corresponding cost report is due, if applicable. Any overpayment that is retained after this deadline is considered an obligation subject to an action under the FCA. Although we believe that our operations comply with both federal and state laws, they may nevertheless be the subject of a whistleblower lawsuit or may otherwise be challenged or scrutinized by governmental authorities. A determination that we have violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as contractual provisions with commercial payors that prohibit us from submitting inaccurate, incorrect or misleading claims. We believe that our surgical facilities are in material compliance with all such laws, regulations and contractual provisions regarding the submission of claims. We cannot be sure, however, that none of our surgical facilities’ claims will ever be challenged. If we were found to be in violation of a state’s laws or regulations, or of a commercial payor contract, we could be forced to discontinue the violative practice and be subject to recoupment actions, fines and criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. All payors are increasingly conducting post-payment audits. For example, CMS has implemented the RAC program, involving Medicare claims audits nationwide. Under the program, CMS contracts with RACs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service Medicare program. The Health Reform Law expanded the RAC program’s scope to include managed Medicare plans and to include Medicaid claims. In addition, CMS employs MICs to perform post-payment audits of Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. The Health Reform Law increases federal funding for the MIC program. In addition to RACs and MICs, the state Medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. We are regularly subject to these external audits and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with Medicare’s conditions for coverage and conditions of participation may result in loss of program payment or other governmental sanctions. To participate in and receive payment from the Medicare program, our facilities must comply with regulations promulgated by CMS. These regulations, known as “conditions for coverage” for ASCs and “conditions of participation” for hospitals, set forth specific requirements with respect to the facility’s physical plant, equipment, personnel and standards of medical care. All of our surgery centers and surgical hospitals are certified to participate in the Medicare program. As such, these facilities are subject to on-site, unannounced surveys by state survey agencies working on behalf of CMS. Under the ASC survey process, the surveyors are becoming more familiar with expanded interpretive guidance and the updated ASC conditions for coverage, which may lead to an increased number of deficiency citations requiring remedy with appropriate action plans. Failure to comply with Medicare’s conditions for coverage and conditions of participation may result in loss of payment or other governmental sanctions, including termination from participation in the Medicare program. We have established ongoing quality assurance activities to monitor our facilities’ compliance with these conditions and respond to surveys, but we cannot be sure that our facilities are or will always remain in full compliance with the requirements. We are subject to federal privacy regulations enacted under HIPAA, and ensuring continued compliance with HIPAA could require us to expend significant resources and capital, impair our profitability and limit our ability to grow our business. HIPAA mandates the adoption of privacy, security and integrity standards related to patient information and standardizes the method for identifying providers, employers, health plans and patients. Numerous federal regulations have been adopted under HIPAA. We have taken actions to comply with the HIPAA privacy 59 Table of Contents regulations and believe that we are in substantial compliance with those regulations. These actions include the establishment of policies and procedures, teammate training, identifying “business associates” with whom we need to enter into HIPAA-compliant contractual arrangements and various other measures. Ongoing implementation and oversight of these measures involves significant time, effort and expense. Other federal regulations adopted under HIPAA require our surgical facilities to conduct certain standardized healthcare transactions, including billing and other claim transactions. We have undertaken significant efforts involving substantial time and expense to ensure that our surgical facilities and hospitals submit HIPAA-compliant transactions. We anticipate that continual time and expense will be required to submit HIPAA-compliant transactions and to ensure that any newly acquired facilities can submit HIPAA-compliant transactions. In addition, compliance with the HIPAA security regulations requires ASCs, hospitals and other covered entities to implement reasonable technical, physical and administrative security measures to safeguard protected healthcare information maintained, used and disclosed in electronic form. We have taken actions in an effort to be in compliance with these regulations and believe that we are in substantial compliance with the HIPAA security regulations. A cyber-attack that bypasses our information security systems causing an information security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws or a material disruption of our operational systems could result in a material adverse impact on our business, along with fines. Ongoing implementation and oversight of these security measures involves significant time, effort and expense. For additional information regarding the risks related to management and security of our information systems, see “Risks Related to Our Business — If we are unable to manage and secure our information systems effectively, our operations could be disrupted.” ARRA broadened the scope of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations. Among other things, ARRA extends the application of certain provisions of the security and privacy regulations to business associates (entities that handle identifiable health information on behalf of covered entities) and subjects business associates to civil and criminal penalties for violation of the regulations. ARRA and its implementing regulations also require covered entities to report breaches of unsecured protected health information to affected individuals without unreasonable delay and in no case later than 60 days after the discovery of the breach by the covered entity or its agents. Notification must also be made to HHS and, in certain situations involving large breaches, to the media. Pursuant to a rule issued to implement ARRA, HHS has created a presumption that all non-permitted uses or disclosures of unsecured protected health information are breaches unless the covered entity or business associate establishes that there is a low probability the information has been compromised. Violations of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations may result in civil and criminal penalties, and ARRA strengthened HIPAA’s enforcement provisions. ARRA increased the amount of civil penalties, with penalties now ranging up to $50,000 per violation and a maximum civil penalty of $1.5 million in a calendar year for violations of the same requirement. In addition, ARRA authorized state attorneys general to bring civil actions seeking either an injunction or damages in response to violations of HIPAA privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. In addition, states may impose more protective privacy laws, and both state and federal laws are subject to modification or enhancement of privacy protection at any time. Our facilities will continue to remain subject to any federal or state privacy-related laws that are more restrictive than the privacy regulations issued under HIPAA. These statutes vary and could impose additional requirements on us and more severe penalties for disclosures of confidential health information. If we fail to comply with HIPAA or similar state laws, we could incur substantial monetary penalties. If we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems and transition to the ICD-10 coding system, our operations could be adversely affected. As required by ARRA, the Secretary of HHS has developed and implemented an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and healthcare professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic 60 Table of Contents health record (“EHR”) technology. We have incurred and will continue to incur both capital costs and operating expenses in order to implement certified EHR technology and meet meaningful use requirements. We have incurred $3.5 million of operating expenses to implement our certified EHR technology and to meet meaningful use requirements. These expenses are ongoing and are projected to continue over all stages of implementation of meaningful use. The timing of expenses will not correlate with the receipt of the incentive payments and the recognition of incentive income. If our eligible hospitals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing EHR systems. In addition, although the ARRA incentive payment program does not apply to surgery centers, we have not yet determined an EHR solution for our surgery center facilities. A requirement that surgery centers adopt and meaningfully use EHR technology could cause us to incur significant additional capital costs and operating expenses. As physicians become more integrated with EHR in their practices, we could incur additional capital costs and operating expenses in connection with implementing new technologies at our surgery centers. Health plans and providers, including our facilities, are required to transition to the new ICD-10 coding system, which greatly expands the number and detail of billing codes used for third-party claims. Use of the ICD-10 system is required beginning October 1, 2014. This transition requires significant investment in coding technology and software, and training of staff involved in the coding and billing process. In addition to these upfront costs of transitioning to ICD-10, our facilities could experience significant disruption or delays in payment due to technical or coding errors or other implementation issues involving either our systems, or the systems and implementation efforts of health plans and their business partners. Further, the extent to which the transition to the more detailed ICD-10 coding system could result in decreased reimbursement, because the use of ICD-10 codes results in conditions being reclassified to payment groupings with lower levels of reimbursement than assigned under the previous system, is unknown at this time. Efforts to regulate the construction, relocation, acquisition, change of ownership, change of control or expansion of healthcare facilities could prevent us from acquiring additional facilities, renovating our existing facilities or expanding the breadth of services we offer. Some states require us to apply for and receive prior approval, typically in the form of a CON, for the construction, relocation, acquisition, change of ownership or change of control of healthcare facilities or expansion of the number of operating or procedure rooms or services our facilities offer. In granting approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or for additional or expanded services. Additionally, third parties, including our competitors, have the right to, and often do, object to our applications for a CON. In many of the states in which we currently operate, CONs must be obtained for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in capacity or services offered and various other matters, including change of control or change of ownership. Other states in which we now or may in the future operate may adopt similar legislation. Our costs of obtaining a CON could be significant, and we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain the CON or other required approvals for the addition, expansion or change of control or change of ownership of facilities or services in the future. If we are unable to obtain required approvals, we may not be able to acquire additional facilities, expand healthcare services we provide at our existing facilities or replace, expand or relocate our facilities. If antitrust enforcement authorities conclude that our market share in any particular market is too concentrated, that our or our health system partners’ commercial payor contract negotiating practices are illegal, or that we otherwise violate antitrust laws, we could be subject to enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Federal government and most states have enacted antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. These laws prohibit price fixing, concerted refusal to deal, market monopolization, price discrimination, tying arrangements, acquisitions of competitors and other practices that have, or may have, an adverse effect on competition. Violations of federal or state antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Antitrust enforcement in the healthcare industry is 61 Table of Contents currently a priority of the FTC. We believe we are in compliance with federal and state antitrust laws, but courts or regulatory authorities may reach a determination in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The healthcare laws and regulations to which we are subject are constantly evolving and may change significantly in the future. The laws and regulations applicable to our business and to the healthcare industry generally to which we are subject are constantly in a state of flux. While we believe that we have structured our agreements and operations in material compliance with applicable healthcare laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address changes in the current regulatory environment. We believe that our business operations materially comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations. However, some of the healthcare laws and regulations applicable to us are subject to limited or evolving interpretations, and a review of our business or operations by a court, law enforcement or a regulatory authority might result in a determination that could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the healthcare laws and regulations applicable to us may be amended or interpreted in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) listing rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. TPG currently controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ listing rules. Under these standards, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: • that a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors; • that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and • that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. We are currently utilizing certain of these exemptions. Although we currently have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors, our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Compensation Committee do not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. In addition, on June 20, 2012, the SEC passed final rules implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) pertaining to compensation committee independence and the role and disclosure of compensation consultants and other advisers to the compensation committee. The SEC’s rules directed each of the national securities exchanges to develop listing standards requiring, among other things, that: • compensation committees be composed of fully independent directors, as determined pursuant to new independence requirements; • compensation committees be explicitly charged with hiring and overseeing compensation consultants, legal counsel and other committee advisors; and • compensation committees be required to consider, when engaging compensation consultants, legal counsel or other advisors, certain independence factors, including factors that examine the relationship between the consultant or advisor’s employer and us. 62 Table of Contents On January 11 and December 11, 2013, the SEC approved the proposed listing standards of the national securities exchanges, including NASDAQ, related to, among other items, compensation committee advisors and compensation committee independence. As a “controlled company,” we are not subject to these compensation committee independence requirements, but we are subject to the other requirements. If in the future we no longer qualify as a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ listing rules, we will no longer qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. We are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and are therefore subject to NASDAQ’s listing rules. If in the future, as a result of additional issuances of common stock or otherwise, TPG no longer holds more than 50% of our outstanding common stock, we will no longer be a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ’s listing rules. Pursuant to the requirements of NASDAQ’s listing rules, within one year after a loss in status as a controlled company, our Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee must be composed entirely of “independent directors” (as defined by NASDAQ’s listing rules). During the phase-in period granted by NASDAQ’s listing rules, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of NASDAQ’s listing rules. If, within one year of a loss of controlled company status, we do not have additional independent directors on our Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, we will not be in compliance with NASDAQ’s listing rules and may be subject to enforcement actions by NASDAQ. TPG has significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control, and which may result in conflicts with us or you in the future. We are controlled by TPG, and they currently own approximately 62.6% of our common stock. Pursuant to the Stockholders’ Agreement, dated November 4, 2013, among the Company, TPG and its affiliates, TPG currently has the right to designate a majority of the seats on our board of directors, and as a result Mr. Sisitsky, a TPG Partner, Mr. Rhodes, a TPG Principal, and Mr. Geiser and Dr. Mansukani, each of whom provide consulting services to TPG, have been appointed to our board of directors. As a result, TPG can exercise control over our affairs and policies, including the approval of certain actions such as amending our Certificate of Incorporation, commencing bankruptcy proceedings and taking certain actions (including, without limitation, incurring debt, issuing stock, selling assets and engaging in mergers and acquisitions), appointing members of our management and any transaction that requires stockholder approval regardless of whether others believe that such change or transaction is in our best interests. The interests of TPG may not be consistent with your interests as a stockholder. So long as TPG continues to hold a majority of our outstanding common stock, TPG will have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors, amend our Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws or take other actions requiring the vote of our stockholders. Even if the amount owned by TPG is less than 50%, TPG will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. So long as TPG collectively owns at least 50% of the shares of our common stock held by them at the closing of our initial public offering, they will be able to designate for nomination a majority of the seats on our board of directors. This control may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes of control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company. In addition, although we have opted out of the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”), which regulates corporate takeovers, our Certificate of Incorporation contains similar provisions related to business combinations with interested stockholders and provides that TPG and any of its direct or indirect transferees and any group as to which such persons are a party do not constitute interested stockholders for purposes of this provision. Additionally, TPG is in the business of making investments in companies and may currently hold, and may from time to time in the future acquire, controlling interests in businesses engaged in industries that complement or compete, directly or indirectly, with certain portions of our business. Further, if TPG pursues other acquisitions in our industry, those acquisitions may not be available to us. These rights of TPG are set forth in 63 Table of Contents our Certificate of Incorporation. So long as the TPG Funds (as defined in Part III, Item 10 herein) continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our equity, TPG will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. We are an “emerging growth company” under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”), and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” under the JOBS Act, and we are permitted to, and currently intend to, take advantage of certain exemptions from certain disclosure requirements. We are an “emerging growth company” until the earliest of: (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which we had total annual gross revenues of $1.0 billion or more, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt or (iv) the date on which we are deemed a “large accelerated filer” as defined under the federal securities laws. We will be deemed a large accelerated filer in the fourth quarter of 2014 if our public float as of June 30, 2014 is $700 million or greater. Our public float as of March 20, 2014 was approximately $456 million. For so long as we remain an “emerging growth company”, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on certain executive compensation matters, such as “say on pay” and “say on frequency.” As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information that they may deem important. Although we currently intend to rely on the exemptions provided in the JOBS Act, the exact implications of the JOBS Act for us are still subject to interpretations and guidance by the SEC and other regulatory agencies. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised financial accounting standards. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we have determined to opt out of such extended transition period and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised financial accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised financial accounting standards is irrevocable. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our taking advantage of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our choices, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile. Some provisions of Delaware law and our governing documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. In addition to TPG’s ownership of a controlling percentage of our common stock, Delaware law and provisions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of us. A change of control could be proposed in the form of a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. For example, our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; 64 Table of Contents • require that the number of directors be determined, and any vacancy or new board seat be filled, only by the board of directors; • do not permit stockholders to act by written consent once TPG ceases to beneficially own more than 50% of our outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; • do not permit stockholders to call a special meeting, provided, however, at any time when TPG beneficially owns at least 50% of our outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, special meetings of our stockholders shall also be called by the board of directors or the chairman of the board of directors at the request of TPG; • require a 66 2/3% vote of all outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors in order to amend certain provisions in the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws; • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or “blank check” preferred stock, by our board of directors without stockholder approval; and • contain provisions similar to that of Section 203 of the DGCL related to business combinations with interested stockholders and provide that TPG and any of its direct or indirect transferees and any group as to which such persons are a party, do not constitute interested stockholders for purposes of this provision. Many of our employment agreements, plans and equity arrangements with our executive officers also contain change of control provisions. Under the terms of these arrangements, the executive officers are entitled to receive (i) certain payments or benefits upon a termination without cause or for good reason and (ii) accelerated vesting of option awards if the executive is terminated without cause or for good cause within the two-year period following a change in control. These and other provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing changes of control or changes in management, even if such transactions or changes would have significant benefits for our stockholders. As a result, these provisions could limit the price some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Prior to our initial public offering, there was no prior public market for our common stock and an active, liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. Prior to our initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock. Although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we do not know whether third parties will find our common stock to be attractive or whether firms will be interested in continuing to make a market in our common stock. If an active and liquid trading market does not develop or is not sustained, you may have difficulty selling any of our common stock that you have purchased at an attractive price, or at all. The market price of our common stock may decline below its initial offering price, and you may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for them, or at all, and may suffer a loss on your investment. You may incur further dilution in the net tangible book value of the shares you have purchased. We have a large number of outstanding stock options to purchase common stock with exercise prices that are below the initial public offering price of our common stock. In addition, HealthSouth Corporation (“HealthSouth”) holds an unvested option to purchase equity securities constituting 5% of the equity securities issued and outstanding as of the closing of our acquisition in 2007 on a fully diluted basis, which becomes exercisable upon certain customary liquidity events, including a public offering of shares of our common stock 65 Table of Contents that results in 30% or more of our common stock being listed or traded on a national securities exchange. Additionally, as of March 20, 2014, there were 215,770 shares issuable upon settlement of restricted stock units. To the extent that these stock options are exercised, the option held by HealthSouth to purchase common shares becomes vested and is exercised or restricted stock units are settled in shares of our common stock, you may experience further dilution in the net tangible book value of the shares of common stock you have purchased. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment as a result. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • results of operations that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • results of operations that vary from those of our competitors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • strategic actions by us or our competitors; • announcements by us, our competitors or our vendors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in business or regulatory conditions; • investor perceptions or the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives; • the public’s response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC; • guidance, if any, that we provide to the public, any changes in this guidance or our failure to meet this guidance; • changes in accounting principles; • announcements by third parties or governmental entities of significant claims or proceedings against us; • new laws and governmental regulations applicable to the healthcare industry, including the Health Reform Law; • a default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; • future sales of our common stock by us, directors, executives and significant stockholders; • changes in domestic and international economic and political conditions and regionally in our markets; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from natural disasters, war, acts of terrorism or responses to these events. Furthermore, the stock market has recently experienced extreme volatility that, in some cases, has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. As a result, our common stock may trade at a price significantly below the price at which any stockholder purchased his or her shares. 66 Table of Contents In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of executive management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation. Future offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, which would rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If, in the future, we decide to issue debt or preferred equity securities that may rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us. Fluctuations in our future operating results may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate from time to time in the future. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include but are not limited to: • the timing, volume and pricing of procedures at our facilities; • the impact to the marketplace of competitive products and pricing; • surgery-related supplies, implants and equipment availability and cost; • changes in or announcements regarding potential changes to Medicare reimbursement rates; and • shifts in our ownership percentage in our facilities. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. If we or our existing investors sell additional shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. At the completion of our initial public offering, we had 38.1 million shares of common stock outstanding. Of these outstanding shares of common stock, all of the shares of common stock sold in the initial public offering are freely tradable in the public market. We believe 26.9 million shares are restricted securities as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”) and may be sold by the holders into the public market from time to time in accordance with and subject to limitation on sales under Rule 144. We, our directors, our executive officers, TPG and the selling stockholders agreed not to sell or transfer any common stock or securities convertible into, exchangeable for, exercisable for, or repayable with common stock, for 180 days beginning on October 29, 2013 without first obtaining the written consent of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 67 Table of Contents In connection with our initial public offering, we entered into a registration rights agreement with TPG and certain members of our management and our board of directors, which provides the signatories thereto the right, under certain circumstances, to require us to register their shares of common stock under the Securities Act for sale into the public markets. Currently, we have approximately 2.0 million shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding vested stock options under our equity incentive plans, approximately 1.1 million shares subject to outstanding unvested stock options under our equity incentive plans, and approximately 2.3 million shares reserved for future grant under our equity incentive plans. Shares acquired upon the exercise of vested options under our equity incentive plans may be sold by holders into the public market from time to time, in accordance with and subject to limitation on sales by affiliates under Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock following the vesting of outstanding stock options could cause the market price of our shares of common stock to decline. Because we do not currently intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, for future operation, expansion and debt repayment and do not intend to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law or the SEC and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We are a holding company with nominal net worth and no operations of our own, and we will depend on dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries to pay any dividends. Surgical Care Affiliates, Inc. is a holding company with nominal net worth. We do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investments in our subsidiaries. Our business operations are conducted primarily out of our direct operating subsidiary, SCA. As a result, our ability to pay dividends, if any, will be dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries, including from SCA. Payments to us by our subsidiaries will be contingent upon their respective earnings and subject to any limitations on the ability of such entities to make payments or other distributions to us. See “— Risks Related to our Business — The terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions” for additional information regarding the limitations currently imposed by our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. In addition, our subsidiaries, including our direct operating subsidiary, SCA, are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make any funds available to us. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the trading price of our common stock may be negatively affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations, and beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2014, our management will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, until such time as we cease to be an “emerging growth company” as more fully described in “Risks Related to Our Common Stock — We are an ‘emerging growth company’ under the JOBS Act, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure 68 Table of Contents requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors,” our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in compliance with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. We are in the process of designing, implementing, and testing the internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation, which process is time consuming, costly, and complicated. As we only recently became a public company following the completion of our initial public offering on November 4, 2013, we have limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when required, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. As a result, we could become subject to investigations by the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The requirements of being a public company are expensive and time-consuming and may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act. Since the completion of our initial public offering of common stock, we have been required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC. Complying with these reporting and other regulatory requirements is time-consuming and has resulted, and will continue to result, in increased costs to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, we will need to commit significant resources, hire additional staff and provide additional management oversight. The Dodd-Frank Act introduced multiple executive compensation and corporate governance reforms, some of which are not yet in effect, but which will demand additional attention of management. We have implemented, and will continue to implement, additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. Sustaining our growth also will require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identify new professionals to join our firm and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. These activities may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, we are permitted to, and intend to, take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. When these exemptions cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for 69 Table of Contents up to five years, although we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances. See “Risks Related to our Common Stock — We are an ‘emerging growth company’ under the JOBS Act, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors” for additional information on when we may cease to be an emerging growth company. We cannot yet predict or estimate the amount of additional costs that we may incur as a result of being a public company or the timing of such costs. If securities or industry analysts do not publish, cease publishing or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If industry or securities analysts do not establish and maintain adequate research coverage, or if any of the analysts who may cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or provide relatively more favorable recommendations about our competitors, our stock price could decline. If any analyst who may cover us ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets and demand for our common stock could decrease, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 