ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: 1. the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and 2. the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. From June 30, 2004 through June 30, 2006, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors increased its target for the federal funds rate, from 1.0% to 5.25%. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) increased, longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) did not increase to the same degree. This “flattening” and at certain times, “inversion” of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin. From September 2007 through March 2008, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors decreased its target for the federal funds rate from 5.25% to 2.25%. At the same time, longer-term interest rates did not decline to the same degree. If this “steepening” of the market yield curve were to continue, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings reprice downward faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience an increase in our net interest spread and margin, which would have a positive effect on our profitability. Our average interest rate spread decreased 12 basis points to 3.02% at December 31, 2007 from 3.14% at December 31, 2006. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Alternatively, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2007, the fair value of our available for sale investment securities totaled $62.1 million and the amortized cost of such securities was $61.7 million. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity by estimating the change in Cape Bank’s net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At December 31, 2007, in the event of an immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates, we would experience a 1.0% decrease in net portfolio value and a $702,000 decrease in net interest income. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” 30 Table of Contents Our emphasis on commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2007, $235.3 million, or 50.6%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans, including commercial construction loans. Commercial real estate loans constitute a greater percentage of our loan portfolio than any other loan category, including residential mortgage loans, which totaled $175.8 million, or 37.8% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2007. In addition, at December 31, 2007, $12.0 million, or 2.6% of our loan portfolio, consisted of commercial business loans. In addition, at December 31, 2007 Boardwalk Bank had approximately commercial and commercial real estate loans of $247.6 million, or 78.7% of Boardwalk Bank’s total loan portfolio, which loans became part of Cape Bank’s loan portfolio upon consummation of the acquisition. In addition, at December 31, 2007, Cape Bank had $35.5 million in commercial construction loans and Boardwalk Bank had $21.1 million in commercial construction loans. We have increased our originations of commercial real estate and commercial business loans in recent years and we intend to continue to emphasize this type of lending. Commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans generally expose a lender to a greater risk of loss than one- to four-family residential loans. Repayment of commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally depends, in large part, on sufficient income from the property or the borrower’s business, respectively, to cover operating expenses and debt service. Commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Changes in economic conditions that are beyond the control of the borrower and lender could affect the value of the security for the loan, the future cash flow of the affected property, or the marketability of a construction project with respect to loans originated for the acquisition and development of property. See “Business—Lending Activities.” A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values would reduce our profits. A majority of our loans, including our commercial real estate and commercial business loans, are secured by real estate or made to businesses in our local market area which are heavily dependent on second home and vacation customers. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would reduce our profits. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in real estate values in our market area, although more recently, such values have begun to stabilize and, in some instances, decreased. Due to the credit market, values may decline. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could adversely affect our portfolio of commercial real estate loans and could result in a decline in the origination of such loans. For a discussion of our market areas, see “Business —Cape Bank—Market Area.” Strong competition within our market area could reduce our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition in making loans, attracting deposits and hiring and retaining experienced employees. Price competition for loans and deposits may result in our charging lower interest rates on loans and paying higher interest rates on deposits, which reduces our net interest income. Price competition for loans and deposits also may result in our being unable to originate and fund as many loans as we can in a prudent manner. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. At June 30, 2007, which is the most recent date for which data are available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held 12.2% of the deposits in Cape May County and 3.5% of the deposits in Atlantic County, New Jersey. Our acquisition of Boardwalk Bank increased our market share, but we will still be subject to intense competition. Boardwalk Bank held 1.6% and 6.2% of the deposits in Cape May County and Atlantic County, respectively, at June 30, 2007. We expect competition to increase in the future. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. 31 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be affected adversely by changes in laws and regulations. Cape Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as its primary federal regulator and insurer of its deposits, and by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance as its primary state regulator. Cape Bancorp is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which Cape Bank and Cape Bancorp may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund and our depositors and borrowers rather than for holders of Cape Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on our operations, designate problem assets and determine the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may increase our costs of operations and have a material impact on our operations. Risks Related to Completed Acquisition of Boardwalk Bank There is a possibility that Cape Bank will be unable to effectively integrate Boardwalk Bank with its operations. The future growth of Cape Bank and Cape Bancorp will depend, in part, on the success of the merger of Boardwalk Bancorp with Cape Bancorp. The success of the merger will, in turn, depend on a number of factors, including Cape Bank’s ability to: • retain and integrate key Boardwalk Bank personnel into the operations of Cape Bank; • control the incremental non-interest expense from the merger in order to improve overall operating efficiencies; • limit the outflow of deposits from Boardwalk Bank branches; and • integrate Boardwalk Bank’s branches into the current operations of Cape Bank. We could potentially recognize goodwill impairment charges after the merger and conversion. Our acquisition of and merger with Boardwalk Bancorp was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. In accordance with applicable accounting principles, Cape Bancorp estimates that, as a result of the merger, total intangible assets of $51.8 million, including goodwill totaling $50.7 million, will be recorded under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142 (“SFAS No. 142”). As a result, goodwill will equal approximately 27.3% of the $185.7 million of pro forma consolidated total stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2007. Pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Cape Bancorp will annually review goodwill for impairment. The fair value of a banking franchise can fluctuate downward based on a number of factors that are beyond management’s control, e.g. adverse trends in interest rates and increased loan losses. If our banking franchise value declines after consummation of the conversion and the merger, there may be goodwill impairment charges to operations which would adversely affect our future earnings. The value of the combined investment portfolio may be adversely affected by market conditions. For the purposes of preparing Cape Bancorp’s consolidated financial statements and pursuant to the purchase method of accounting, Cape Bancorp will establish a new accounting basis for Boardwalk Bancorp’s assets and liabilities based upon their estimated fair market values. As such, Boardwalk Bancorp’s investment securities portfolio will be marked-to-market as of the date of acquisition. While it is not anticipated that any fluctuation in the value of these securities will be material to the aggregate combined investment portfolio, there can be no assurance that as a result of increased market volatility, these fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on certain investment positions within the portfolio or upon the portfolio as a whole. 32 Table of Contents At December 31, 2007, Boardwalk Bancorp had approximately $30.0 million of corporate debt securities (including collateralized debt obligations) in its investment portfolio, the values of which are affected by changes in the underlying quality of each entity’s investments, and changes in market interest rates, among other factors. Under current market conditions, the decline in value of these corporate debt securities is not material relative to the pro forma combined investment portfolio. However, given the uncertain market conditions affecting corporate debt securities, we cannot assure you that any future diminution in value would not be material. Furthermore, in order to reduce exposure, we may choose to liquidate certain of these securities at any point in the future following consummation of the acquisition as market conditions justify an orderly sale of such securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 