Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS/RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain matters contained in this report include “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements discuss our expected future results based on current and pending business operations. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report, that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “continues,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “might,” “planned,” “potential,” “projects,” “scheduled” or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding: • amounts and nature of future capital expenditures; • expansion and growth of our business and operations; • financial condition and liquidity; • business strategy; • cash flow from operations or results of operations; 12 Table of Contents • the levels of cash distributions to unitholders; • rate case filings; and • natural gas and natural gas liquids prices and demand. Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this document. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. The reader should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below in addition to the other information in this annual report. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common units and the trading price of our common units could decline and unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. Many of the factors that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition are beyond our ability to control or project. Specific factors which could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements include: • availability of supplies (including the uncertainties inherent in assessing and estimating future natural gas reserves) market demand, volatility of prices, and the availability and costs of capital; • inflation, interest rates, and general economic conditions (including the recent economic slowdown and the disruption of global credit markets and the impact of these events on Northwest’s customers and suppliers); • the strength and financial resources of our and Northwest’s competitors; • the development of alternative energy sources; • the impact of operational and development hazards; • costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government regulations (including proposed climate change legislation), environmental liabilities, litigation, and rate proceedings; • Northwest’s costs and funding obligations for defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans; • increasing maintenance and construction costs; • changes in the current geopolitical situation; • Northwest’s exposure to the credit risks of its customers; • risks relating to strategy and financing, including restrictions stemming from Northwest’s debt agreements, future changes in Northwest’s credit rating and the availability and cost of credit; • risks association with future weather conditions; • acts of terrorism; and • additional risks described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions or otherwise. 13 Table of Contents Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include following: RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information in this report. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Risks Inherent in Our Industry and Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to maintain current levels of cash distributions or to pay the minimum quarterly distribution following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to maintain current levels of cash distributions or to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash Northwest generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the rates Northwest charges for its transportation and storage services and the volumes of natural gas its customers transport and store; • the level of Northwest’s operating and maintenance expenses and general and administrative costs and our incremental general and administrative costs; • the overall demand for natural gas in markets that Northwest serves and the quantities of natural gas available for transport, especially from the Rocky Mountain region, the San Juan Basin and the WCSB supply basins; • regulatory action affecting the demand for natural gas, the supply of natural gas, the rates Northwest can charge, how Northwest contracts for services, and Northwest’s existing contracts, operating costs and operating flexibility; • the development of LNG import terminals, which could materially affect the market price of natural gas, which could inturn indirectly affect the longer term supply and demand dynamics of natural gas in Northwest’s areas of operation; and • potential competition from third parties who may build new pipelines in or near Northwest’s markets or supply basins. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the amount of cash distributed by Northwest in respect of our 35 percent general partnership interest, which is our sole asset; • the level of capital expenditures we and Northwest make, including expenditures to maintain Northwest’s facilities, to complete construction projects and to make acquisitions; • our and Northwest’s debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our and Northwest’s working capital needs; • our and Northwest’s ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • the creditworthiness of, and timeliness of payment from, Northwest’s customers; 14 Table of Contents • restrictions contained in Williams’ and Northwest’s credit agreement and in Northwest’s indentures, including restrictions on distributions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by Northwest and by our general partner. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our business. Our future growth will depend upon our ability to successfully identify, finance, acquire, integrate and operate projects and businesses. Failure to achieve any of these factors would adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated growth in the level of cash flows or realize anticipated benefits. We may acquire new facilities or Northwest may expand its existing facilities to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production that does not ultimately materialize. As a result, new or expanded facilities may not achieve profitability. In addition, the process of integrating newly acquired or constructed assets into Northwest’s operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, may absorb significant management attention and may require financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development and expansion of our existing operations. Future acquisitions or construction projects may require substantial new capital and could result in the incurrence of indebtedness, additional liabilities and excessive costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. If we issue additional common units in connection with future acquisitions, unitholders’ interest in us will be diluted and distributions to unitholders may be reduced. Further, any limitations on our access to capital, including limitations caused by illiquidity in the capital markets, may impair our ability to complete future acquisitions and construction projects on favorable terms, if at all. Events in the global financial crisis have made equity and debt markets less accessible and created a shortage in the availability of credit, which could disrupt our financing plans and limit our ability to grow. In 2008 public equity markets experienced significant declines and global credit markets have experienced a shortage in overall liquidity and a resulting disruption in the availability of credit. Under current market conditions, it is unclear whether we could issue additional equity or debt securities or, even if we were able, whether we could do so at prices and pursuant to terms that would be acceptable to us. Continuing volatility or additional disruptions in the global financial marketplace, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, could make equity and debt markets inaccessible and adversely affect the availability of credit already arranged and the availability and cost of credit in the future. As a publicly traded partnership, these developments could significantly impair our ability to make acquisitions or finance growth projects. We distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders on a quarterly basis. We typically rely upon external financing sources, including the issuance of debt and equity securities and bank borrowings, to fund acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures. Any limitations on our access to external capital, including limitations caused by illiquidity in the capital markets, may impair our ability to complete future acquisitions and construction projects on favorable terms, if at all. As a result, we may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to businesses that reinvest all of their available cash to expand ongoing operations, particularly under current economic conditions. The continuation of recent economic conditions, including disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect our results of operations. The slowdown in the economy and the significant disruptions and volatility in global credit markets have the potential to negatively impact our business in many ways. Included among these potential negative impacts are reduced demand and lower prices for Northwest’s products and services, increased difficulty in collecting amounts owed to Northwest by its customers and a reduction in Northwest’s credit ratings (either due to tighter rating standards or the negative impacts described above), which could result in reducing Northwest’s and our access to credit markets, raising the cost of such access or requiring Williams, Northwest or us to provide collateral to third parties. 15 Table of Contents The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash from financial reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. We and Williams jointly control Northwest. As a result, we cannot independently control the amount of cash we will receive from Northwest, and we may be required to contribute significant cash to fund Northwest’s operations. Our 35 percent general partnership interest in Northwest is our sole asset and therefore Northwest generates substantially all of our cash available for distribution. As a result, our performance is substantially dependent on Northwest’s distributions to us. The ownership of Northwest is shared between us and Williams. Accordingly, we cannot independently control the amount of cash distributed to us, nor can we independently control ongoing operational decisions, including the incurrence of capital expenditures that we may be required to fund. More specifically: • we cannot independently control decisions with respect to the operation of Northwest, including decisions with respect to incurrence of expenses and distributions to us; • Northwest may establish reserves for working capital and maintenance capital expenditures which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to us; • Northwest may incur additional indebtedness, and the related principal and interest payments would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to us; • Northwest may require us to make additional capital contributions to fund working and maintenance capital expenditures, as well as to fund expansion capital expenditures, funding of which could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to you. Our lack of 100 percent control over the operation of Northwest may mean that we do not receive the amount of cash expected to be distributed to us. We may be required to make capital contributions to Northwest, and these contributions may be material. This lack of 100 percent control may materially and adversely affect our ability to distribute cash to you. Northwest’s natural gas transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that might result in accidents and other operating risks and hazards. Northwest’s operations are subject to all the risks and hazards typically associated with the transportation and storage of natural gas. These operating risks include, but are not limited to: • fires, blowouts, cratering and explosions; • uncontrolled releases of natural gas; • pollution and other environmental risks; • natural disasters; • aging pipeline infrastructure and mechanical problems; • damage inadvertently caused by third party activity, such as operation of construction equipment; and • terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of other energy companies. These risks could result in loss of human life, personal injuries, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry 16 Table of Contents practice, Northwest maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses, and only at levels they believe to be appropriate. The location of certain segments of Northwest’s pipeline in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the damages resulting from these risks. In spite of any precautions taken, an event such as those described above could cause considerable harm to people or property and could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s and our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss of service available to Northwest’s customers. Such circumstances, including those arising from maintenance and repair activities, could result in service interruptions on segments of Northwest’s pipeline infrastructure. Potential customer impacts arising from service interruptions on segments of Northwest’s pipeline infrastructure could include limitations on the pipeline’s ability to satisfy customer requirements, obligations to provide reservations charge credits to customers in times of constrained capacity, and solicitation of existing customers by others for potential new pipeline projects that would compete directly with existing services. Such circumstances could adversely impact Northwest’s ability to meet contractual obligations and retain customers, with a resulting negative impact on Northwest’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. Northwest’s current pipeline infrastructure is aging, which may adversely affect its business and our ability to make distributions to you. Some portions of Northwest’s pipeline infrastructure are approximately 50 years old. The current age and condition of this pipeline infrastructure could result in a material adverse impact on Northwest’s business, financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to make distributions to you if the costs of maintaining its facilities exceed current expectations. Increased competition from alternative natural gas transportation and storage options and alternative fuel sources could have a significant financial impact on us. Northwest competes primarily with other interstate pipelines and storage facilities in the transportation and storage of natural gas. Some of Northwest’s competitors may have greater financial resources and access to greater supplies of natural gas than it does. Some of these competitors may expand or construct transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for natural gas supplies or the services Northwest provides to its customers. Moreover, Williams and its affiliates, including Williams Partners, are not limited in their ability to compete with Northwest or us. Further, natural gas also competes with other forms of energy available to Northwest’s customers, including electricity, coal, fuel oils and other alternative energy sources. The principal elements of competition among natural gas transportation and storage assets are rates, terms of service, access to natural gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. FERC’s policies promoting competition in natural gas markets could have the effect of increasing the natural gas transportation and storage options for Northwest’s traditional customer base. As a result, Northwest could experience some “turnback” of firm capacity as the primary terms of existing agreements expire. If Northwest is unable to remarket this capacity or can remarket it only at substantially discounted rates compared to previous contracts, Northwest or its remaining customers may have to bear the costs associated with the turned back capacity. Increased competition could reduce the amount of transportation or storage capacity contracted on Northwest’s system or, in cases where it does not have long-term fixed rate contracts, could force Northwest to lower its transportation or storage rates. Competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that significantly decrease demand for natural gas or increase the price of natural gas in the markets served by Northwest’s pipeline system, such as competing or alternative forms of energy, a regional or national recession or other adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the price of natural gas or limit the use of, or increase the demand for, natural gas. Northwest’s ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of Northwest’s competitors. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. 17 Table of Contents Northwest may not be able to maintain or replace expiring natural gas transportation and storage contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis. Northwest’s primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time the terms of existing transportation and storage contracts expire and are subject to termination. Although none of Northwest’s material contracts are terminable in 2009, upon expiration of the terms, Northwest may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis. The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond Northwest’s control, including: • the level of existing and new competition to deliver natural gas to Northwest’s markets; • the growth in demand for natural gas in Northwest’s markets; • whether the market will continue to support long-term firm contracts; • whether Northwest’s business strategy continues to be successful; • the level of competition for natural gas supplies in the production basins serving Northwest; and • the effects of state regulation on customer contracting practices. Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of Northwest’s existing contracts may have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. Northwest’s natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to regulation by FERC, which could have an adverse impact on its ability to establish transportation and storage rates that would allow it to recover the full cost of operating its pipeline, including a reasonable return, and on our ability to make distributions to you. Northwest’s interstate natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Specifically, its interstate transportation and storage services and related assets are subject to regulation by FERC. The federal regulation extends to such matters as: • transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce; • rates, operating terms and conditions of service, including initiation and discontinuation of services; • the types of services Northwest may offer to its customers, including initiation and discontinuation of services; • certification and construction of new facilities; • acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities; • accounts and records; • depreciation and amortization policies; • relationships with marketing functions within Williams involved in certain aspects of the natural gas business; and • market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases or transportation of natural gas. Under the Natural Gas Act, or NGA, FERC has authority to regulate interstate providers of natural gas pipeline transportation and storage services and such providers may only charge rates that have been determined to be just and reasonable by FERC. In addition, FERC prohibits providers from unduly preferring or unreasonably discriminating against any person with respect to pipeline rates or terms and conditions of service. 18 Table of Contents Regulatory actions in these areas can affect Northwest’s business in many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues, deceasing volumes in Northwest’s pipelines, increasing Northwest’s costs and otherwise altering the profitability of Northwest’s business. The FERC’s Standards of Conduct govern the relationship between natural gas transmission providers and “marketing function employees” as defined by the rule. The standards of conduct are intended to prevent natural gas transmission providers from preferentially benefiting their gas marketing functions by requiring the employees of a transmission provider that perform transmission functions to function independently from marketing function employees and by restricting the information that transmission providers may provide to gas marketing employees. The inefficiencies created by the restrictions on the sharing of employees and information may increase our costs, and the restrictions on the sharing of information may have an adverse impact on our senior management’s ability to effectively obtain important information about our business. Violators of these rules are subject to potentially substantial civil penalty assessments. The rates, terms and conditions for Northwest’s interstate pipeline and storage services are set forth in its FERC-approved tariff. Pursuant to the terms of Northwest’s most recent rate settlement agreement, Northwest and the other parties to the settlement are precluded from filing for any further increases or decreases in existing rates prior to January 1, 2009, and Northwest must file a new rate case to become effective not later than January 1, 2013. Any successful complaint or protest against Northwest’s rates could have an adverse impact on Northwest’s revenues associated with providing transportation and storage services. Northwest could be subject to penalties and fines if it fails to comply with FERC regulations. Northwest’s transportation and storage operations are regulated by FERC. Should Northwest fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, it could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation. Any material penalties or fines imposed by FERC could have a material adverse impact on Northwest’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. The outcome of future rate cases to set the rates Northwest can charge customers on its pipeline might result in rates that lower Northwest’s return on the capital that Northwest has invested in its pipeline. There is a risk that the rates set by FERC will be inadequate to recover increases in operating costs or to sustain an adequate return on capital investments. There is also the risk that higher rates will cause Northwest’s customers to look for alternative ways to transport their natural gas. Legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations relating to the energy industry and capital markets have adversely affected our business and may continue to do so. Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry and of the capital markets has resulted in increased regulation being either proposed or implemented. Such scrutiny has also resulted in various inquiries, investigations and court proceedings in which Northwest or its affiliates are named as defendants. Both the shippers on Northwest’s pipeline and regulators have rights to challenge the rates Northwest charges under certain circumstances. Any successful challenge could materially affect Northwest’s results of operations. Certain inquiries, investigations and court proceedings are ongoing. Northwest might see adverse effects continue as a result of the uncertainty of these ongoing inquiries and proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, Northwest cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against Northwest, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other regulatory action, including legislation, which might be materially adverse to the operation of Northwest’s business and revenues and net income or increase Northwest’s operating costs in other ways. Current legal proceedings or other matters against Northwest including environmental matters, disputes over gas measurement and royalty payments, suits, regulatory appeals and similar matters might result in adverse decisions against Northwest. The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance. 19 Table of Contents Any significant decrease in supplies of natural gas in Northwest’s areas of operation could adversely affect its business and operating results and reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. Northwest’s business is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production and reserves. The development of the additional natural gas reserves requires significant capital expenditures by others for exploration and development drilling and the installation of production, gathering, storage, transportation and other facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered to Northwest. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations or the lack of available capital for these projects could adversely affect the development and production of additional reserves, as well as gathering, storage, pipeline transmission and import and export of natural gas supplies, adversely impacting Northwest’s ability to fill the capacities of its gathering, transmission and processing facilities. Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to Northwest’s pipeline will naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. Additionally, the competition for natural gas pipelines to serve other markets could reduce the amount of natural gas supply for Northwest’s customers. Accordingly, to maintain or increase the contracted capacity or the volume of natural gas transported on Northwest’s pipeline and cash flows associated with the transportation of natural gas, Northwest’s customers must compete with others to obtain adequate supplies of natural gas. If new supplies of natural gas are not obtained to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing supply basins, or if natural gas supplies are diverted to serve other markets, the overall volume of natural gas transported and stored on Northwest’s system would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s business, financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to make distributions to you. Decreases in demand for natural gas could adversely affect Northwest’s business. Demand for Northwest’s transportation services depends on the ability and willingness of shippers with access to Northwest’s facilities to satisfy their demand by deliveries through Northwest’s system. Any decrease in this demand could adversely affect Northwest’s business. Demand for natural gas is also affected by weather, future industrial and economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation, or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which are matters beyond our and Northwest’s control. Additionally, in some cases, new LNG import facilities built near Northwest’s markets could result in less demand for Northwest’s transmission facilities. Significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and demand, cause a termination of Northwest’s transportation and storage contracts or a reduction in throughput on Northwest’s system, and adversely affect our cash available to make distributions to you. Higher natural gas prices over the long term could result in a decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in Northwest’s long-term transportation and storage contracts or throughput on Northwest’s system. Also, lower natural gas prices over the long term could result in a decline in the production of natural gas resulting in reduced contracts or throughput on Northwest’s system. As a result, significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. The failure of new sources of natural gas production or LNG import terminals to be successfully developed in North America could increase natural gas prices and reduce the demand for Northwest’s services. New sources of natural gas production in the United States and Canada, particularly in areas of shale development are expected to become an increasingly significant component of future natural gas supplies in North America. Additionally, increases in LNG supplies are expected to be imported through new LNG import terminals, particularly in the Gulf Coast region. If these additional sources of supply are not developed natural gas prices could increase and cause consumers of natural gas to turn to alternative energy sources which could have a material 20 Table of Contents adverse effect on Northwest’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. Northwest depends on certain key customers for a significant portion of its revenues. The loss of any of these key customers or the loss of any contracted volumes could result in a decline in cash available for us to make distributions to you. Northwest relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Northwest’s largest customer was Puget Sound Energy, Inc. This customer accounted for approximately 20.7 percent of Northwest’s operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. The loss of even a portion of Northwest’s contracted volumes, as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate contract extensions or replacements of contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you, unless Northwest is able to acquire comparable volumes from other sources. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to Northwest’s pipeline and facilities become unavailable to transport natural gas, Northwest’s revenues and our ability to make distributions to you could be adversely affected. Northwest depends upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from its pipeline and storage facilities. Because Northwest does not own these third-party pipelines or facilities, their continuing operation is not within its control. If these pipelines or other facilities were to become unavailable due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity, increased credit requirements or rates charged by such pipelines or facilities or any other reason, Northwest’s ability to operate efficiently and continue shipping natural gas to end-use markets could be restricted, thereby reducing its revenues. Further, although there are laws and regulations designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions, some companies may fail to provide fair and equal access to their transportation systems or may not provide sufficient transportation capacity for other market participants. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect causing a material reduction in volumes transported on Northwest’s pipeline or stored at Northwest’s facilities could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. Northwest is exposed to the credit risks of its customers. Northwest is exposed to the credit risk of its customers in the ordinary course of its business. Generally Northwest’s customers are rated investment grade, are otherwise considered creditworthy, or are required to make pre-payments or provide security to satisfy credit concerns. However, Northwest cannot predict to what extent its business would be impacted by deteriorating conditions in the economy, including declines in Northwest’s customers’ creditworthiness. While Northwest monitors these situations carefully and attempts to take appropriate measures to protect itself, it is possible that Northwest may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect Northwest’s operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. Northwest’s debt agreements impose restrictions on it that may adversely affect its ability to operate its business. Williams has a credit agreement to which Northwest is a party. This agreement contains covenants that restrict or limit, among other things, Northwest’s ability to create liens supporting indebtedness, sell assets, make certain distributions, and incur additional debt. In addition, the credit agreement and Northwest’s existing indentures contain other limitations such as, in the case of the credit agreement, financial covenants, with which it must comply. Any debt agreements that we or Northwest enter into in the future may contain similar covenants and limitations. Northwest’s and our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by many events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that Northwest’s and our future operating results will be sufficient to comply with the covenants or, in the event of a default under any of its debt agreements, to remedy that default. 21 Table of Contents A failure to comply with the covenants in the credit agreement or in any existing or future debt agreements could result in events of default. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under a particular facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments, if any, to extend further credit. An event of default or an acceleration under one debt agreement could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of other debt agreements. Such a cross-default or cross-acceleration could have a wider impact on Northwest’s or our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. If an event of default occurs, or if other debt agreements cross-default, and the lenders under the affected debt agreements accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt outstanding, Northwest or we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay amounts outstanding under such debt agreements. Any event of default or acceleration at Northwest would materially and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to you because distributions from Northwest represent substantially all of the cash we expect to distribute to our unitholders. Northwest’s ability to repay, extend or refinance its existing debt obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on its operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our or its control. Northwest’s ability to refinance existing debt obligations or obtain future credit will also depend upon the current conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit generally. If Northwest is unable to meet its debt service obligations or obtain future credit on favorable terms, if at all, Northwest could be forced to restructure or refinance its indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. Northwest may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. Although Northwest’s debt instruments may contain limitations on additional indebtedness, Northwest’s general partnership agreement does not prohibit it from incurring indebtedness, which may affect our ability to make distributions to you. As discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor, Northwest’s existing debt instruments contain restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness. However, such restrictions do not prohibit incurrence of indebtedness in all instances, and Northwest’s general partnership agreement does not prohibit it from incurring indebtedness. At December 31, 2008, Northwest had no loans outstanding under its credit agreement, and approximately $693.2 million in outstanding senior notes which are not consolidated on our balance sheet. If permitted under Northwest’s credit agreement and its other indebtedness, Northwest could incur additional indebtedness. Northwest’s incurrence of significant additional indebtedness could inhibit its ability to make distributions to us. An inability by Northwest to make distributions to us would materially and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to you because distributions from Northwest represent substantially all of the cash we expect to distribute to our unitholders. Acquisitions or expansion projects may reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis. If we or Northwest make acquisitions or complete expansion projects, these acquisitions or expansion projects may reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis. Any acquisition or expansion project involves potential risks, including, among other things: • decreases in liquidity as a result of using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the project or acquisition; • inability to complete expansion projects on schedule or within the budgeted cost due to the unavailability of required construction personnel or materials, accidents, weather conditions or an inability to obtain necessary permits; • inability to receive cash flows from a newly built or acquired asset until it is operational; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new producing basins or end-use markets; and • customer losses at the acquired business. If any expansion projects or acquisitions we or Northwest ultimately complete are not accretive to our cash available for distribution, our ability to make distributions to you may be reduced. 22 Table of Contents Northwest’s operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose them to significant costs and liabilities and could exceed current expectations. Northwest’s natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing environmental protection, the discharge of materials into the environment and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to Northwest’s operations including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from its pipeline and facilities, and the imposition of substantial costs and penalties for spills, releases and emissions of various regulated substances into the environment resulting from those operations. Various governmental authorities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, analogous state agencies, and the United States Department of Homeland Security, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of Northwest’s operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the operation of natural gas transportation and storage facilities due to the handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, the occurrence of air emissions and water discharges related to the operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations, including the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and analogous state laws, in connection with spills or releases of natural gas and wastes on, under, or from Northwest’s properties and facilities. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which Northwest’s pipeline passes and facilities where Northwest’s wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. Northwest may not be able to recover all or any of its remedial costs from insurance. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly regulated substance and waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or remedial requirements could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. Northwest may be subject to legislative and regulatory responses to climate change with which compliance may be costly. Legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change create financial risk. The United States Congress and certain states have for some time been considering various forms of legislation related to greenhouse gas emissions. Increased public awareness and concern may result in more state, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate the emission of greenhouse gases. Numerous states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce greenhouse gases and similar federal legislation has been introduced in both houses of Congress. Northwest’s pipeline may be subject to regulation under climate change policies introduced at either the state or federal level within the next few years. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation could increase our costs of compliance with environmental laws. If Northwest is unable to recover all costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on them, it could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s results of operations and on our ability to make distributions to you. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could negatively impact Northwest’s costs of and access to capital. 23 Table of Contents Northwest does not own all of the land on which its pipeline and facilities are located, which could disrupt its operations. Northwest does not own all of the land on which its pipeline and facilities have been constructed. As such, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. Northwest obtains, in certain circumstances, the rights to construct and operate its pipeline on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. In addition, some of Northwest’s facilities cross Native American lands pursuant to rights-of-way with limited terms. Northwest does not have the right of eminent domain over land owned by Native American tribes. Northwest’s loss of any of these rights, through its inability to renew right of way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. Northwest’s costs and funding obligations for defined benefit pension plans and costs for other postretirement benefit plans, in which it participates, are affected by factors beyond its control. Northwest is a participating employer in defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its U.S. employees and other postretirement benefit plans covering certain eligible participants. The timing and amount of Northwest’s funding allocation requirements under the defined benefit pension plans in which it participates depends upon a number of factors Williams controls, including changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors outside of its control, such as asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase Northwest’s funding allocations requirements could have a significant adverse effect on its financial condition. The amount of expenses recorded for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans, in which Northwest participates, is also dependent on changes in several factors, including market interest rates and the returns on plan assets. Significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact Northwest’s future results of operations. We and Northwest do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the inability of the insurers we do use to satisfy our claims. We and Northwest are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our businesses, including environmental accidents that might occur. In addition, neither we nor Northwest maintain business interruption insurance in the type and amount to cover all possible risks of loss. Williams currently maintains excess liability insurance with limits of $610.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate annually and a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. This insurance covers Williams and its affiliates, including our and Northwest’s, legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury, personal injury or property damage, including resulting loss of use, to third parties. This excess liability insurance includes coverage for sudden and accidental pollution liability for full limits, with the first $135.0 million of insurance also providing gradual pollution liability coverage for natural gas and natural gas liquids operations. Pollution liability coverage excludes: release of pollutants subsequent to their disposal; release of substances arising from the combustion of fuels that result in acidic deposition; and testing, monitoring, clean-up, containment, treatment or removal of pollutants from property owned, occupied by, rented to, used by or in the care, custody or control of Williams and its affiliates. Williams does not insure onshore underground pipelines for physical damage, except at river crossings and at certain locations such as compressor stations. Williams maintains coverage of $300 million per occurrence for physical damage to assets and resulting business interruption caused by terrorist acts committed by a U.S. person or interest. Also, all of Williams’ insurance is subject to deductibles. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we or Northwest are not fully insured, it could adversely affect Northwest’s or our operations and financial condition. We or Northwest may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike have impacted the availability of certain types of coverage at reasonable rates, and we or Northwest may elect to self insure a portion of our asset portfolio. We cannot assure you that we or Northwest will in the future be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we or Northwest would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that the insurance coverage we or Northwest do obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks 24 Table of Contents not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. In addition, certain insurance companies that provide coverage to us, including American International Group, Inc., have experienced negative developments that could impair their ability to pay any potential claims. As a result, we could be exposed to greater losses than anticipated and replacement insurance may have to be obtained, at a greater cost, if available. Execution of Northwest’s capital projects subjects them to construction risks, increases in labor costs and materials, and other risks that may adversely affect financial results. A significant portion of Northwest’s growth is accomplished through the construction of new transportation and storage facilities, as well as the expansion of existing facilities. Construction of these facilities is subject to various regulatory, development and operational risks, including: • the ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on acceptable terms; • the availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to complete expansion projects; • potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; • impediments on our ability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis and on acceptable terms; • the ability to construct projects within estimated costs, including the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of equipment, materials, labor or other factors beyond our control, that may be material; and • the ability to access capital markets to fund construction projects. Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. As a result, new facilities may not achieve expected investment return, which could adversely affect Northwest’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to make distributions to you. Northwest’s assets and operations can be affected by weather and other natural phenomena. Northwest’s assets and operations can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather conditions including extreme temperatures, making it more difficult for Northwest to realize the historic rates of return associated with these assets and operations and adversely affecting our ability to make distributions to you. Insurance may be inadequate, and in some instances, Northwest may be unable to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A significant disruption in operations or a significant liability for which Northwest was not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition, and on our ability to make distributions to you. In addition, there is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases may be linked to global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk. Northwest’s customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change or demand is impacted by regulations associated with climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes, leading either to increased investment or decreased revenues. Acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Northwest’s assets and the assets of its customers and others may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt its business or cause significant harm to its operations, such as full or partial disruption to its ability to transport natural gas. Acts of terrorism as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism could cause environmental repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or 25 Table of Contents significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on Northwest’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to make distributions to you. Institutional knowledge residing with current employees of Northwest nearing retirement eligibility might not be adequately preserved. In Northwest’s business, institutional knowledge resides with employees who have many years of service. As these employees reach retirement age, Northwest may not be able to replace them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. In addition, Northwest may not be able to retain or recruit other qualified individuals and its efforts at knowledge transfer could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become unavailable to Northwest. Failure of or disruptions to Northwest’s outsourcing relationships might negatively impact its ability to conduct its business. Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing relationships. Although Williams has taken steps to build a cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with its outsourcing providers and to closely monitor their performance, a deterioration in the timeliness or quality of the services performed by the outsourcing providers or a failure of all or part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be able to conduct our business. The expiration of such agreements or the transition of services between providers could lead to similar losses of institutional knowledge or disruptions. Certain of Northwest’s accounting, information technology, application development, and help desk services are currently provided by Williams’ outsourcing provider from service centers outside of the United States. The economic and political conditions in certain countries from which Williams’ outsourcing providers may provide services present risks common to business operations located outside of the United States, including risks of interruption of business, war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, that are greater than in the United States. Potential changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our financial results and disclosures in the future, which might change the way analysts measure our business or financial performance. Regulators and legislators continue to take a renewed look at accounting practices, financial disclosures, companies’ relationships with their independent registered public accounting firms and retirement plan practices. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in accounting regulations or practices in general with respect to public companies or the energy industry or in our operations specifically. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC or the FERC could enact new accounting standards or FERC orders that might impact how we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Williams controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Williams, our general partner, and their respective affiliates have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Williams owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the directors of our general partner. All of the executive officers and certain directors of our general partner are officers and/or directors of Williams and its affiliates, including Williams Partners’ general partner. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Williams. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Williams and its affiliates, including our general partner and Williams Partners, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own 26 Table of Contents interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts, include, among others, the following factors: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Williams or its affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us; • all of the executive officers and certain of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Williams and Williams Partners’ general partner, and these persons will also owe fiduciary duties to those entities; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Williams and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; • Williams owns the remaining 65 percent general partnership interest in Northwest; • Williams owns common and subordinated units representing an aggregate 45.7 percent limited partner interest in us, and if a vote of limited partners is required, Williams will be entitled to vote its units in accordance with its own interests, which may be contrary to our interests or your interests; • our general partner may make a determination to receive a quantity of our Class B common units and additional general partner units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders; • all of the executive officers and certain of the directors of our general partner will devote significant time to the business of Williams and/or Williams Partners, and will be compensated by Williams for the services rendered to them; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our cash reserves, asset purchases and sales, borrowings and issuances of additional partnership securities, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and, based on the applicable facts and circumstances, whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure or investment capital expenditure, neither of which reduces operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders, including distributions on our subordinated units, and to our general partner with respect to its incentive distribution rights, as well as the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is required to be indemnified by us; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase all common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 75 percent of the common units; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. 27 Table of Contents The credit and risk profile of our general partner and its owner, Williams, could adversely affect our or Northwest’s credit ratings, which could increase our or Northwest’s borrowing costs or hinder our or Northwest’s ability to raise capital. The credit and business risk profiles of our general partner and Williams may be factors considered in credit evaluations of us and Northwest. This is because Williams, through our general partner, controls our business activities, including our cash distribution policy, acquisition strategy and business risk profile. A decline in Williams’ credit rating, such as occurred in 2002, would adversely affect Northwest and us. If we were to seek a credit rating in the future, our credit rating may be adversely affected by the leverage of our general partner, Northwest or Williams, as credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service may consider the leverage and credit profile of Williams and its affiliates because of their ownership interest in and control of us and the strong operational links between Williams, Northwest and us. If Williams’ debt levels adversely impact our or Northwest’s credit rating, it would increase our or its cost of borrowing or hinder our or its ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which would impair our or its ability to grow our or its business and make distributions. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and subordinated units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. The limitation and definition of these duties is permitted by the Delaware law governing limited partnerships. In addition, our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our limited partner units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates, or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights, its reset rights with respect to our incentive distribution levels, and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith, and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • provides that our general partner, its affiliates and their officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct; and • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner or the conflicts committee of its board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. 28 Table of Contents In addition, the general partnership agreement of Northwest contains similar provisions that limit the duties of each partner to the other and to Northwest. To the maximum extent permitted by Delaware law, the Northwest general partnership agreement also provides that the members of the management committee only owe fiduciary duties to the partner that appointed them. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will agree to become bound by the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. The fiduciary duties of the general partners of Northwest are similarly restricted. Affiliates of our general partner, including Williams and Williams Partners L.P. (“Williams Partners”) are not limited in their ability to compete with Northwest or us. Williams is also not obligated to offer us the opportunity to acquire additional assets or businesses from it, which could limit our commercial activities or our ability to grow. In addition, all of the executive officers and certain of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Williams and Williams Partners’ general partner, and these persons will also owe fiduciary duties to those entities. Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement among us, Williams, and certain affiliates of Williams will prohibit affiliates of our general partner, including Williams, Williams Partners and their respective affiliates, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with Northwest or us. In addition, Williams, Williams Partners, and their respective affiliates may acquire, construct or dispose of additional natural gas transportation or storage assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Williams may also choose to offer assets to its other affiliates, including Williams Partners, instead of us. Furthermore, all of the executive officers and certain of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Williams and Williams Partners’ general partner and will owe fiduciary duties to those entities as well as our unitholders and us. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, will be chosen entirely by Williams and not by the unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders. Furthermore, if the unitholders become dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. If you are not an Eligible Holder, you will not be entitled to receive distributions or allocations of income or loss on your common units, and your common units will be subject to redemption at a price that may be below the then-current market price. We have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common and subordinated units. Eligible Holders are individuals or entities subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity’s owners are subject to such taxation. If you do not meet the requirements to be an Eligible Holder, you will not be entitled to receive distributions or allocations of income and loss on your units and you run the risk of having your units redeemed by us at the lower of your purchase price and the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. 29 Table of Contents Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B common units and additional general partner units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. This may result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations. Our general partner has the right to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and the initial target distribution levels upon which the incentive distributions payable to our general partner are based at higher levels based on our cash distribution for the two quarters prior to the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the new minimum quarterly distribution amount and target distribution levels will be higher than they were prior to the reset such that incentive distributions to our general partner will be reduced or eliminated until cash distributions per common unit following the reset increase. Our general partner may initially exercise its right to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and target distribution levels at a time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48 percent) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, our general partner will be entitled to receive a number of Class B common units and additional general partner units. The Class B common units will be entitled to the same cash distributions per unit as our common units and will be convertible into an equal number of common units. Our general partner will be issued the number of Class B common units such that the aggregate cash distribution to be received by our general partner with respect to the newly issued Class B common units and any retained incentive distribution rights immediately following the reset is equivalent to the average of the cash distributions received by our general partner with respect to its incentive distribution rights for the two consecutive fiscal quarters prior to the reset. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such exercise. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our Class B common units, which are entitled to receive cash distributions from us on the same priority as our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new Class B common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including Williams, for various general and administrative services they provide for our benefit, including costs for rendering administrative staff and support services to us, and overhead allocated to us. Our general partner determines the amount of these distributions in its sole discretion. Payments for these services will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. If you are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, you will initially have effectively no ability to remove our general partner. The vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Our general partner owns 46.7 percent of our outstanding common and subordinated units. Accordingly, our unitholders cannot remove 30 Table of Contents our general partner without its consent because our general partner owns sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. In addition, under certain circumstances the successor general partner may be required to purchase the combined general partner interest and incentive distribution rights of the removed general partner, or alternatively, such interests will be converted into common units. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions to you. We are a partnership holding company and our operating company owns our only significant asset, which is our 35 percent general partnership interest in Northwest. We have no significant assets other than our 100 percent ownership of our operating company, and its 35 percent general partnership interest in Northwest. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws, and other laws and regulations, including FERC policies. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the member or members of our general partner to transfer its or their members’ interests in our general partner to a third party. The new owner or owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of the general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of the general partner. This effectively permits a “change of control” of the partnership without your vote or consent. In addition, pursuant to the omnibus agreement with Williams, any new owner of the general partner would be required to change our name so that there would be no further reference to Williams. We may issue additional units without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • each existing unitholder’s proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Common units held by our general partner eligible for future sale may adversely affect the price of our common units. Our general partner holds an aggregate of 4,700,668 common units and 10,957,900 subordinated units. Our general partner may from time to time, sell all or a portion of its common units or subordinated units. Sales of 31 Table of Contents substantial amounts of its common units or subordinated units, or the anticipation of such sales, could lower the market price of our common units and may make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 75 percent of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our general partner owns approximately 20.8 percent of our outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than for the conversion of the subordinated units into common units), our general partner will own approximately 46.7 percent of our outstanding common units. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership 32 Table of Contents agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. If we are deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it would adversely affect the market price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our initial asset is a 35 percent general partnership interest in Northwest. If this general partnership interest were to be deemed an “investment security” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC, or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Although general partner interests are typically not considered securities or “investment securities,” there is a risk that our general partnership interest in Northwest could be deemed an investment security. In that event, it is possible that our ownership of these interests, combined with our assets acquired in the future, could result in our being required to register under the Investment Company Act if we were not successful in obtaining exemptive relief or otherwise modifying our organizational structure or applicable contract rights. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property from or to our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The occurrence of some or all of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and would cause the market price of our common units to decline materially. Moreover, treatment of us as an investment company would prevent our qualification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, in which case we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. As a result we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. As a result, treatment of us as an investment company would result in a material reduction in distributions to you, which would materially reduce the value of our common units. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by states and localities. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state or local tax purposes, the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which currently has a top marginal rate of 35 percent, and would likely pay state and local income tax at the corporate tax rate of the various states and localities imposing a corporate income tax. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any jurisdiction were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be reduced. The partnership agreement provides that if a law is 33 Table of Contents enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, in response to certain recent developments, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income under Internal Revenue Code Section 7704(d) and the treatment of certain types of income earned from profits interests in partnerships. It is possible that these efforts could result in changes to the existing U.S. tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including us. Modifications to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the units each month based upon the ownership of the units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the common units each month based upon the ownership of the units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from your share of our taxable income. The tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income you were allocated for a common unit, which decreased your tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if our common unit is sold at a price greater than your tax basis in that common unit, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, regardless of whether such amount represents gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to you due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, if you sell your common units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. 34 Table of Contents We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of applicable Treasury Regulations. Our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of such filing positions. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of our common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. An IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and our general partner. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from our counsel’s conclusions or from the federal income tax positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders and our general partner, and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to the unit holders who are organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, may be taxable to them as “unrelated business taxable income”. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to you. It also could affect the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. 35 Table of Contents The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profits interests within any 12-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns for one fiscal year. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in the unitholders’ taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If we are treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. You will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states or localities where you do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance, or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign countries that impose a personal income tax or an entity level tax. It is your responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state and local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 