Risk Factors” section. In addition to the factors described above, we have issued warrants to purchase shares of our Class B common stock that are carried at fair value and are required to be adjusted through earnings (marked to market) each reporting period. The fair value of these warrants is based on the value of our underlying Class B common stock. These mark-to-market adjustments could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our fiscal year consists of a 52-week or 53-week period ending on the Saturday closest to December 31, and our fiscal quarters consist of three 12-week periods and one 16-week or 17-week period ending on a Saturday. As a result, our fourth fiscal quarter of each year contains not only the holiday gifting season but also an extra four weeks (or five weeks for 53-week fiscal years) when compared to our first three fiscal quarters, a fact that exacerbates our quarterly fluctuations and makes it difficult to evaluate our operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result of quarterly fluctuations caused by these and other factors, comparisons of our operating results across different fiscal quarters may not be accurate indicators of our future performance. Any quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may differ from the expectations of market analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our Class A common stock and, following the Spin-Off, our Class B common stock to fluctuate significantly. Due to seasonal fluctuations in our business, adverse events that occur during the second or fourth fiscal quarter could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Seasonal consumer spending habits significantly affect our business. During 2013, we derived approximately 25% of our annual revenues in the last four weeks of our fiscal year. A significant portion of gift card sales occurs in late December of each year as a result of the holiday selling season. As a result, we earn a significant portion of our revenues and generate a higher portion of our net income during the fourth fiscal quarter of each year. The timing of December holiday sales, cash inflows from our distribution partners and cash outflows to our content providers also results in significant but temporary increases in our cash flow and certain balance sheet items at the end of each fiscal year relative to normal daily balances. We also experience an increase in revenues and cash flows in the second fiscal quarter of each year, which we primarily attribute to the Mother’s Day, Father’s Day, the graduation gifting season and the Easter holiday. Depending on when the Easter holiday occurs, the associated increase could occur in either our first or second fiscal quarter. Adverse events that occur during the second or fourth fiscal quarter could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. Our closed loop and open loop gift card business could suffer if there is a decline in the attractiveness of gift cards to consumers. Consumer demand for gift cards may stagnate or decline. Consumer perception of gift cards as impersonal gifts may become more widespread, which may deter consumers from purchasing gift cards for gifting purposes in general and through our distribution program in particular. This perception may increase to the extent that electronic gift cards become more prevalent. In addition, a move from traditional gift cards to other gifting technologies could harm our business, as discussed in the risk factor titled “Our failure to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry and the greater electronic payments industry may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.” Moreover, during periods of economic uncertainty and decline, consumers may become increasingly concerned about the value of gift cards due to fears that content providers may become insolvent and be unable to honor gift card balances. Finally, consumers may remain concerned about expiration dates, despite the fact that few gift cards are still subject to expiration. Decline or stagnation in consumer acceptance of and demand for gift cards, or a failure of demand to grow as expected, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Our ability to increase our revenues from prepaid financial services products, including GPR cards, will depend, in large part, upon the success of the prepaid financial services industry. We earn fees when GPR cards are loaded or reloaded through our network or are used by consumers. If consumers do not maintain or increase their usage of prepaid cards, our operating revenues may remain at current levels or decline. As the financial services industry evolves, consumers may find prepaid financial products and services such as GPR cards to be less attractive than traditional payment instruments, new products offered by others or other financial services. Prepaid financial products and services may fail to maintain or achieve greater popularity for any number of reasons, including the general perception of the prepaid industry, fees associated with the use of GPR cards, the potential for fraud in connection with these products, changes to these products from time to time, including those that result from new regulatory requirements, new technologies and a decrease in our distribution partners’ willingness to sell these products as a result of a more challenging regulatory environment. Negative publicity surrounding other prepaid financial products and service providers could adversely affect our business or our industry as a whole. Predictions by industry analysts and others concerning the growth of prepaid financial services as an electronic payment mechanism may overstate the growth of an industry, segment or category, and investors should not rely upon them. The projected growth may not occur or may occur more slowly than estimated. If consumer acceptance of prepaid financial services does not continue to develop or develops more slowly than expected, or if there is a shift in the mix of payment forms, such as cash, credit cards and traditional bank debit cards, away from our products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we have signed agreements with third parties to provide a private-branded GPR solution. In some cases, we incur costs to launch such programs before we are assured of the volume of sales of these GPR cards, and if we are not able to recover these costs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our operating revenues could be materially and adversely affected by declines in consumer confidence, spending and preferences. The prepaid industry depends upon the overall level of consumer spending. Prepaid card sales for gifting purposes are particularly dependent on discretionary consumer spending. Consumer spending may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, including consumer confidence, interest and tax rates, employment levels, salary and wage levels, the availability of consumer credit, the housing market and energy and food costs. The effects of these conditions on our business may be exacerbated by changes in consumer demand for prepaid products and services. Adverse economic conditions in the United States or other regions where we conduct business may reduce the number and load value of prepaid cards that are purchased or reloaded through our distribution network, the number of transactions involving those cards and the use of our reload network and related services, all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our transaction processing systems, including our computer network systems and data centers, and if such systems are disrupted, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to provide reliable service to consumers, distribution partners and content providers depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers, as well as those of our content providers, distribution partners and third-party processors. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money, the processing of large numbers of transactions and the management of the data necessary to do both. Our success depends on our ability and that of our partners and respective vendors to process and facilitate these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner. Our transaction processing systems and websites (or those of our content providers, distribution partners or third-party processors) may experience service interruptions or degradation as a result of processing or other technology malfunction, software defects, technology installation difficulties or delays, fire, natural disasters, 27 Table of Contents power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. Additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our data network. If a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, the failure could interrupt our services. In the event of a service interruption or degradation of our transaction processing systems, we could suffer financial loss, loss of customers, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. If we face system interruptions or failures, our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to cover the losses or damages that we incur, or in the future we may determine to self-insure against some of these risks. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A data security breach could expose us to liability and protracted and costly litigation, and could adversely affect our reputation and operating revenues. We and our content providers and distribution partners receive, transmit and store confidential customer and other information in connection with the sale and use of our prepaid products and services. The encryption software and the other technologies we use to provide security for storage, processing and transmission of confidential customer and other information may not be effective to protect against data security breaches by third parties. The risk of unauthorized circumvention of our security measures has been heightened by advances in computer capabilities and the increasing sophistication of hackers. The banks that issue our program-managed cards, as well as our other content providers, distribution partners and third-party processors, also may experience similar security breaches involving the receipt, transmission and storage of our confidential customer and other information. Improper access to our or these third parties’ systems or databases could result in the theft, publication, deletion or modification of confidential customer information and/or card data, including theft of funds on the card or counterfeit reproduction of the cards. A data security breach of our or our partners’ systems could lead to fraudulent activity involving our products and services, reputational damage, private claims or regulatory actions against us and increased compliance costs. Any such data security breach could result in protracted and costly litigation. If unsuccessful in defending that litigation, we might be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, a significant data security breach could lead to additional regulation, which could result in new and costly compliance obligations. We may have to replace any issuing bank or third-party processor that has a security breach, which may not be possible on acceptable terms, or at all. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We regularly experience unauthorized attempts to access our systems, but we have not experienced any material losses in connection with data security breaches discovered to date. While we have multiple security measures in place to both prevent and detect intrusions, rapid advances in computer capabilities and the increasing sophistication of hackers may expose us to significant losses in the future. Litigation, investigations or regulatory examinations could lead to significant settlements, fines, penalties or compliance costs. We are involved, and in the future may be involved, in various litigation and regulatory matters arising in the ordinary course of business. We are also subject to ongoing regulatory examinations related to our state money transmitter licenses. We may also be subject to other regulatory investigations from time to time. These matters can result in substantial costs and diversions of management time and other resources. While we do not anticipate any material negative outcomes related to these matters, we can provide no assurance that any pending or future matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our products and services could lead to reputational and financial harm to us or our partners and reduce the use and acceptance of our prepaid access products and services. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to acquire or activate prepaid cards illegally or to use prepaid cards in connection with illegal activities. In addition, we are subject to the security vulnerabilities of third parties who provide transaction processing services to us or to our content providers and distribution partners. Furthermore, our Cardpool business subjects us to additional fraud risks associated with previously owned cards or with “merchandise credits.” Merchandise credits function much like a prepaid gift card once issued. Such credits may result from organized retail theft, typically in the form of returns of stolen or fraudulently obtained goods by organized groups of professional shoplifters, or “boosters,” who then convert such goods into merchandise credits, which are sometimes then exchanged for cash. To the extent that our content providers view the exchange of merchandise credits by our Cardpool business as contrary to their efforts to reduce organized retail crime, our relationships with those content providers may be adversely affected. Content providers may also change their merchandise credit practices in a way that hurts our business. In addition, law enforcement agencies have advised us of investigations into the exchange activities of various customers they believe to be involved in such organized retail crime. Although we have introduced enhanced anti-fraud and anti-crime measures, such as improved “know your customer” and suspicious activity reporting in connection with our Cardpool business in an effort to reduce our fraud risk and the risk of illegal activity (including money laundering) being associated with our Cardpool business, the outcome of investigations by law enforcement agencies is difficult to predict. The monetary and other impacts of these investigations and our ongoing risk management actions may remain unknown for a substantial period of time. A single significant incident of theft or fraud, or results of these investigations involving customers of our business, or the prepaid industry or card exchange industry more generally, could also result in losses and reputational damage, which could in turn reduce the use and acceptance of the products and services that we offer, cause distribution partners, content providers or reload network participants to cease doing business with us, lead to civil or criminal proceedings and liability, lead to fines and penalties by the credit card associations or lead to greater regulation that would increase our or our partners’ compliance costs or increase our direct or indirect expenses associated with preventing and detecting both fraud and illegal activity. While we have not experienced any material losses in connection with fraudulent or illegal activities discovered to date, fraudulent or other illegal activities involving, or investigations relating to, our products and services, or any changes we make to our product and service offerings to prevent such activities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Prior to customers’ purchases of our gift card products and GPR cards, we, or our content providers or our distribution partners generally bear losses due to theft and fraudulent access based on whose card processing systems are at fault. Following activation, whether a cardholder bears the loss of any theft, fraudulent access or other loss of a card depends upon the issuer’s cardholder terms and conditions. We generally bear such losses to the extent that (a) we process or program manage the card, (b) the cardholder has registered the card, (c) the loss exceeds the amount for which the cardholder is responsible (with the cardholder’s responsibility ranging from zero to $500) and (d) the cardholder notifies us of the loss within the required timeframe. Changes in card association rules or standards set by Visa, MasterCard and Discover, or changes in card association and debit network fees or products or interchange rates, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and the banks that issue our program-managed cards are subject to Visa card association and debit network rules and standards. As a result of our acquisition of InteliSpend, Blackhawk Network California issues Discover-branded prepaid cards and is subject to Discover’s network rules and standards. Noncompliance with these rules or standards due to our acts or omissions or the acts or omissions of businesses that work with us could subject us or our issuing banks to fines or penalties imposed by card associations or networks, and we may 29 Table of Contents be required to indemnify the banks for the fines and penalties they incur. The termination of the card association registrations held by us or any of the banks that issue our cards or any changes in card association or other debit network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of existing rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, from time to time, card associations increase the organization and/or processing fees that they charge, which could increase our operating expenses, reduce our profit margin and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A portion of the revenue derived from our proprietary open loop cards is derived from our share of the fees charged to merchants for services provided in settling transactions routed through the networks of the card associations and network organizations, referred to as interchange fees. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act required the FRB to implement regulations that have substantially limited interchange fees for many issuers of debit cards and prepaid cards. While we believe that the exemption from the limits imposed by the FRB available to small issuing banks, such as MetaBank, Sunrise Bank, N.A. and Bancorp, will apply to our program-managed cards, it remains possible that the card associations and network organizations could reduce the interchange fees applicable to transactions conducted by the holders of cards issued by these banks. If interchange rates decline, whether due to actions by the payment networks, our issuing banks or existing or future legislation, regulation or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to operate and scale our technology effectively to match our business growth. Our ability to continue to provide our products and services to a growing number of content providers and distribution partners, as well as to enhance our existing products and services and offer new products and services, is dependent on our information technology systems. If we are unable to manage the technology associated with our business effectively, we could experience increased costs, reductions in system availability or performance and losses of our network participants. Any failure of our systems in scalability and functionality could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry and the greater electronic payments industry may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The electronic payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including ongoing technological advancement in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), e-commerce and mobile commerce, and real-time reloading for prepaid telecom products, among others. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the electronic payments industry will continue to emerge, and that these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies and related business practices we currently use in our distributed products and services. Successful implementation of our strategy will depend in part on our ability to develop and implement technological changes and to respond effectively and quickly to changes in our industry. We expect to invest in new technologies, services and infrastructure changes to further our strategic objectives, strengthen our existing businesses and remain competitive. These initiatives may be costly, could be delayed and may not be successful. In addition, in some areas, such as mobile interfaces, electronic gift card solutions and digital wallet integration, we may rely on strategic partners to develop or co-develop our solutions, or to incorporate our solutions into broader platforms for the electronic payments industry. We may not be able to enter into such relationships on attractive terms, or at all, and these relationships may not be successful. In addition, these partners, some of whom may be our competitors or potential competitors, may choose to develop competing solutions on their own or with third parties. Even if we or our partners are successful in developing new services and technologies, these new services and technologies may not achieve broad acceptance due to a 30 Table of Contents variety of factors, including a lack of industry-wide standards, competing products and services or resistance to these changes from our content providers and distribution partners, third-party processors or consumers. In addition, we may not be able to derive revenue from these efforts. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. These initiatives are inherently risky, and they may not be successful. The failure of these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the telecom industry, consumers’ purchasing preferences and distribution partners’ support could cause our prepaid telecom business to decline. We are subject to changes in the telecom industry, including changes in distribution strategies for carriers, that may reduce our market share. Our telecom providers may choose to distribute their products through other third-party distributors or establish physical or online distribution channels that allow them to reach consumers directly. For example, in 2011, one of our telecom providers decided to pursue a single supplier strategy in its wholesale market which resulted in the loss of a significant share of our wholesale telecom supply business to another distributor. Furthermore, certain carriers have designated “preferred” distributors for their products in certain channels. In the future, some carriers may de-emphasize or choose to exit the prepaid market, thus reducing the scope of our telecom offerings and overall profitability. Our prepaid telecom offerings generally have been sold in an unassisted manner, as opposed to an assisted sales environment in which sales employees are available to answer questions and demonstrate product features and functionality. As handsets become more sophisticated, consumers may prefer purchasing their handsets in an assisted sales environment, which could lead to a shift in our business model toward assisted sales, resulting in increased costs, or cause sales of our prepaid telecom products to decline or grow at a slower rate than expected or not at all. Our distribution partners may not devote sufficient retail space to effectively market our telecom products, in particular handset offerings that require significant display and secure inventory storage space as compared to prepaid cards. In addition, our distribution partners may choose to discontinue offering telecom products due to legislative and regulatory developments that result in additional costs or compliance burdens in the retail sales environment. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us, our distribution partners or our content providers of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. The technologies used in the payments industry are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties have in the past and may in the future assert infringement and misappropriation claims against us, our distribution partners or our content providers from time to time. For example, on October 19, 2009, e2Interactive, Inc. and InComm, collectively, e2Interactive, filed a lawsuit against our subsidiary, Blackhawk Network, Inc., in Federal District Court in Wisconsin, asserting that Blackhawk infringed a patent held by e2Interactive relating to “methods, systems and computer programs for processing a stored-value-card transaction request in a card data-management system,” and seeking injunctive relief, damages in an unspecified amount and recovery of costs and attorneys’ fees. The jury found infringement and awarded damages to e2Interactive in the amount of $3.5 million for the period from August 2009 through February 2012, with no further payments due as the result of Blackhawk’s removal of certain lines of code in a computer program. We fully accrued for this award in fiscal 2011. In December 2012, the trial court rendered its final post-trial rulings, entering judgment for approximately $3.7 million, including interest and costs, and entering a permanent injunction prohibiting use of the removed code. While the damages represent an immaterial 31 Table of Contents impact to Blackhawk’s financial results for the referenced periods, Blackhawk appealed. On March 12, 2014, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the Federal Circuit) reversed the lower court and ruled that Blackhawk had not infringed. e2Interactive may request rehearing or rehearing en banc at the Federal Circuit or otherwise seek to reverse the Federal Circuit’s decision by petitioning the U.S. Supreme Court. Review by the Supreme Court is discretionary. If the Federal Circuit’s reversal becomes final, Blackhawk intends to ask the court to vacate the damages award and to dissolve the injunction. In addition, in the past, we have received letters from various other parties claiming to have enforceable patent rights and asserting infringement of them by us. There can be no assurance that these assertions, or any such future assertions, will not result in liability or damages payable by us. Our distribution partners may be subject to infringement or misappropriation claims that, if successful, could preclude the distribution partner from distributing our products and services. In addition, some of our agreements require that if claims related to our products and services are made against our distribution partners or content providers, we are required to indemnify them against any losses. For example, we are currently defending a number of our partners in connection with the matter Alexsam, Inc. v. Best Buy Co., Inc. et al., filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging patent infringement in connection with activation of prepaid cards. Alexsam was successful in other patent litigation in 2011. The defendants in our case have denied the claims and vigorously defended the infringement allegations. The trial court in the initial consolidated trial upheld the validity and enforceability of the Alexsam patents in late April 2013 and early May 2013. Separate infringement trials started in May 2013. The first litigation was settled in May 2013, and the next two trials resulted in verdicts of non-infringement by the defendants in June 2013. The remaining four cases were dismissed with prejudice, with no right of appeal. Alexsam has preserved its ability to appeal one case relating to subject matter involving Blackhawk transactions. If the matter is reversed on appeal, our content providers (including those not subject to the litigation) may be required to pay past and future royalties or future license fees (and may rely on us for indemnification of some of those payments) which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Whether or not an infringement or misappropriation claim is valid or successful, it could adversely affect our business by diverting management’s attention or involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation. If we are not successful in defending any such claim, we may be required to pay past and future royalties to use technology or other intellectual property rights then in use, we may be required to enter into a license agreement and pay license fees or we may be required to stop using the technology or other intellectual property rights then in use. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to adequately protect our brands and the intellectual property rights related to our distributed products and services, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be forced to engage in costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success depends in part on developing and protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights in our technology, including various aspects of our card activation and management platform. In addition, the Blackhawk brand, our Gift Card Mall and our other proprietary product brands such as PayPower and Reloadit are important to our business. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, all of which offer only limited protection. Some of our technology and other intellectual property may not be protected by intellectual property laws, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. The loss of our intellectual property or the inability to secure or enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face settlement risk from retailers that sell our distributed products and services. Substantially all of our business is conducted through distribution partners. Our distribution partners collect payment from consumers and then remit these funds to us. In a limited number of cases, we have agreed to pay our closed loop content providers whether or not the distribution partners have paid us. In other limited cases, we 32 Table of Contents have wholesale relationships where another party is responsible for collection of payments from merchants and subsequent remittance of such payments to us. In such cases, our settlement risk is increased due to reliance on these intermediaries. For open loop products for which we act as program manager, we are liable for payments to the issuing bank whether or not the distribution partners have paid us. With respect to our Reloadit Pack, as the issuer, we are responsible for payment to the consumer regardless of any nonpayment by distribution partners. With respect to telecom products other than handsets, we are liable for payments to the telecom provider regardless of any nonpayment by distribution partners. Settlement risk is affected by the seasonality of our business and peaks at year-end as a result of the holiday selling season. As of December 28, 2013, we estimate that we had settlement risk of $223.5 million. We are not insured against these risks. We have in the past experienced settlement losses when an intermediary service provider failed to remit payment to us. These losses over the past three fiscal years have been immaterial. Significant settlement losses resulting from the adverse financial condition of our distribution partners or intermediaries or due to other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We receive important services from third-party vendors, and replacing them would be difficult and disruptive to our business. In addition to issuing banks, we rely on third-party vendors to provide certain services relating to our business, including customer service, warehousing and distribution, in-store merchandising, card production, transaction processing functions, customer verification services and credit validation. It would be difficult to replace some of our third-party vendors, in particular our sole warehousing and distribution provider for the United States and Canada and the software and service provider for our proprietary processing platform, in a timely manner if they were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, and our business and operations could be adversely affected. If we are required to replace a vendor, we may not be able to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. Also, to the extent that any third-party vendor fails to deliver services, either in a timely, satisfactory manner, or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Recent and future acquisitions or investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We acquired a gift card exchange business, Cardpool in the fourth quarter of 2011. More recently, as of November 12, 2013, we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of a business-to-business card sales company called InteliSpend Prepaid Solutions, LLC and its subsidiaries, or InteliSpend, that involves corporate incentives and consumer promotions. As a result, Blackhawk Network California issues Discover-branded prepaid products and consequently has registered with FinCEN as a provider of prepaid access. For additional information, please see the risk factor titled “We are increasingly facing more stringent anti-money laundering rules and regulations, compliance with which may increase our costs of operation, decrease our operating revenues and disrupt our business.” Also in the fourth quarter of 2013, we acquired the stock of Retailo AG, a German company engaged in a prepaid card distribution business in Germany, Switzerland and Austria. In the future, we may pursue other acquisitions or investments that we believe will help us achieve our strategic objectives. The process of integrating an acquired business, product or technology can create unforeseen operating difficulties, expenditures and other challenges such as: • potentially increased regulatory and compliance requirements; • implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company; • diversion of management time and focus from operation of our then-existing business to acquisition integration challenges; 33 Table of Contents • coordination of product, sales, marketing and program and systems management functions; • transition of the acquired company’s users and customers onto our systems; • retention of employees from the acquired company; • integration of employees from the acquired company into our organization; • integration of the acquired company’s accounting, information management, human resources and other administrative systems and operations into our systems and operations; • liability for activities of the acquired company prior to the acquisition, including violations of law, commercial disputes and tax and other known and unknown liabilities; and • litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims brought by terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties. If we are unable to address these difficulties and challenges or other problems encountered in connection with our acquisition of InteliSpend, Cardpool, Retailo or any future acquisition or investment, we might not realize the anticipated benefits of that acquisition or investment and we might incur unanticipated liabilities or otherwise suffer harm to our business generally. To the extent that we pay the consideration for any future acquisitions or investments in cash, it would reduce the amount of cash available to us for other purposes. Future acquisitions or investments could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or impairment charges against goodwill on our balance sheet, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We depend on a number of key personnel who have substantial experience relevant to the payments industry and our operations. All of our employees, including William Tauscher, our Chief Executive Officer, Talbott Roche, our President, and Jerry Ulrich, our Chief Financial and Administrative Officer, are at-will employees, meaning they may terminate their employment with us at any time. Consequently, our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to identify, attract and retain key personnel, namely our management team and experienced sales, marketing, technical and systems management personnel, as well as finance, legal and compliance personnel. Qualified individuals are in high demand, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our principal offices are located, and we may incur significant costs to attract and retain them. In addition, we may experience difficulty assimilating our newly hired personnel and assimilating personnel from acquisition activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competitors have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our top management and employees. If we fail to identify, attract and retain key personnel, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to added business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks associated with our international operations. We currently conduct business in the United States and 20 other countries (with our international business accounting for approximately 19% of our total revenues in 2013), and an important element of our business strategy is the expansion of our business in our existing and new international markets. We are subject to a number of risks related to our foreign operations, including: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, and difficulties in understanding and ensuring compliance with those laws by our employees and business partners; 34 Table of Contents • foreign currency fluctuations; • differing and potentially adverse tax laws; • higher costs associated with doing business internationally, such as costs associated with repatriating funds to the United States, administrative costs associated with payment settlement and other compliance costs related to doing business in foreign jurisdictions; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • restrictions on the transfer of funds among countries and back to the United States; • differing levels of social and technological acceptance of prepaid products and services; • limitations on the level of intellectual property protection; • trade sanctions, political unrest, terrorism, war and epidemics or threats of any of these events; • lack of acceptance of our distributed products or of prepaid products generally; • the potential for disputes with our business partners; and • competitive environments that favor local businesses. In addition, in certain markets, we have entered into and plan to enter into additional distribution agreements with local partners. Accordingly, our success in those markets depends in large part on the success of our commercial partners. We do not control those partners and there is no assurance that they will devote the time or resources, or have the capability, necessary to make our expansion into new markets successful. The materialization of these risks could harm our current international operations, as well as our expansion efforts, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our headquarters and one of our two data centers are located near known earthquake fault zones and in areas of elevated wild fire danger. The occurrence of an earthquake, fire or any other catastrophic event could disrupt our operations or the operations of third parties who provide vital support functions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We and some of the third-party service providers on which we depend for various support functions, such as customer service, warehousing and distribution, card production, transaction processing functions, customer verification services and credit validation, are vulnerable to damage from catastrophic events, such as power loss, natural disasters, terrorism and similar unforeseen events beyond our control. Our principal offices and one of our data centers, for example, are situated in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and areas of elevated wild fire danger. If a catastrophic event were to occur, our ability to operate our business in the normal course could be seriously impaired. The measures we have taken to prepare for such an event may not be successful, and we may experience unforeseen problems unrelated to catastrophic events. In addition, we might not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from catastrophic events or other significant business interruptions. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies, as well as the damage to, or interruption of, our infrastructure and processes, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Safeway On February 19, 2014, Safeway announced that it intended to distribute its shares of our common stock to all Safeway stockholders. On March 6, 2014, Safeway announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to merge with Albertsons (the Merger), and that it expects to complete the Spin-Off by mid-April 2014. In connection with the completion of the Merger, it is expected that Safeway’s distribution of shares of our common stock will be taxable to Safeway and Safeway’s stockholders. 35 Table of Contents As disclosed in our preliminary information statement on Schedule 14C filed with the SEC on February 27, 2014, our board of directors approved, and, pursuant to an action taken by written consent without a meeting, Safeway, as the holder of a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock, approved, an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to change certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation concerning a potential Spin-Off so as to be applicable whether or not the Spin-Off is intended to be tax-free to Safeway and its stockholders (the Charter Amendment). The Charter Amendment is intended to help preserve the ability of a Spin-Off to be tax-free for federal income tax purposes in the event such Spin-Off otherwise meets the applicable requirements for tax-free treatment, including in a circumstance in which Safeway does not consummate a strategic transaction involving the sale of Safeway, such as the Merger, that would prevent such tax-free treatment. Whether such a strategic transaction involving the sale of Safeway will be consummated is not expected to be known at the time of the Spin-Off. The Charter Amendment will result in the shares of our Class B common stock distributed by Safeway to its stockholders in a Spin-Off, whether or not that Spin-Off is tax-free, no longer being convertible into shares of our Class A common stock, which means that our Class B common stock will retain 10 votes per share voting power following the Spin-Off. Following the Spin-Off, our Class B common stock will trade separately from our Class A common stock and may trade at different prices per share than our Class A common stock. We anticipate effecting the Charter Amendment by filing it with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on or after April 7, 2014. Stockholders are cautioned that we do not control the timing of any Spin-Off. Control by Safeway severely limits the ability of our other stockholders to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and could adversely affect our other stockholders. As of December 28, 2013, Safeway owned 94.0% of our outstanding Class B common stock and 0.1% of our outstanding Class A common stock, representing 91.2% of the combined voting power of our outstanding stock and 72.2% of the economic interest in our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, as it has since the inception of Blackhawk, Safeway is able to elect our entire board of directors and to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management, business policies and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including super-majority approval, but will no longer be able to exert such influence or control through its ownership of our common stock following the Spin-Off. Until such time as Safeway beneficially owns shares of our common stock representing less than a majority of the voting rights of our common stock (including as a result of the Spin-Off), Safeway has the ability to take stockholder action by written consent without calling a stockholder meeting and to approve amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and to take other actions without the vote of any other stockholder, and stockholders other than Safeway are not able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote during such time. As a result, Safeway has the ability to control all such matters affecting us, including: • the composition of our board of directors and, through our board of directors, any determination with respect to our business plans and policies; • any determinations with respect to mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our financing activities, including the issuance of additional equity securities; • corporate opportunities that may be suitable for us and Safeway, subject to the corporate opportunity provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as described below in the risk factor titled “Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could prevent us from benefiting from corporate opportunities that might have otherwise been available to us;” • determinations with respect to the enforcement of rights we may have against third parties, including with respect to intellectual property rights; 36 Table of Contents • the payment of dividends on our common stock; and • the number of shares available for issuance under our stock plans for our existing and prospective employees. This concentrated control limits the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our other stockholders do not view as beneficial. Safeway’s voting control may also discourage or block transactions involving a change of control of Blackhawk, including transactions in which a holder of our Class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for shares over the then-current market price. For example, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their Class A common stock. Moreover, Safeway is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party and may do so without approval of holders of Class A common stock and without providing for a purchase of shares of Class A common stock. Accordingly, shares of Class A common stock may be worth less than they would be if Safeway did not maintain voting control over us. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Stock Market rules and, as a result, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. As of March 3, 2013, Safeway controls approximately 91.4% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, currently, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance standards but will no longer be a “controlled company” following the Spin-Off. Under the “controlled company” exemption to the independence requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market, we are exempt from the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market that require that our board of directors consist of a majority of independent directors, that our compensation committee consist solely of independent directors and that our nominating and governance committee consist solely of independent directors. The NASDAQ Stock Market requirement that our audit committee consist solely of independent directors does apply, subject to the phase-in provisions of the applicable listing requirements and the SEC’s rules. A director who is an independent member of both the Safeway board of directors and our board of directors is considered independent for this purpose. Under the “controlled company” exemption, we are not required to have a majority of independent directors and our nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees do not need to consist entirely of independent directors and such committees are not subject to annual performance evaluations. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market. Following the Spin-Off, subject to the phase-in provisions of the applicable listing requirements, we will no longer be able to rely on the “controlled company” exemptions from these corporate governance requirements. Conflicts of interest between us and Safeway could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and our stockholders. Safeway’s interests may conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. Various conflicts of interest between us and Safeway could arise. Six of our eight directors are current or former members of the board of directors or executive officers of Safeway and our chief executive officer serves on the board of directors of Safeway. Ownership interests of directors or officers of Safeway in the common stock of Blackhawk and ownership interests of our directors and officers in the common stock of Safeway, or a person’s service as either a director or officer of both companies, could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when those directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Safeway and Blackhawk. These decisions could, for example, relate to: 37 Table of Contents • corporate opportunities; • arrangements with our distribution partners, many of which are conventional grocery retailers that compete with Safeway; • the impact that operating decisions for our business may have on Safeway’s consolidated financial statements; • management stock ownership; • business combinations involving us; • our dividend policy; and • the intercompany services and arrangements between Blackhawk and Safeway. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we enter into any new commercial arrangements with Safeway in the future. Our directors and officers who have interests in both us and Safeway may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of their time between Safeway and Blackhawk matters. Please see the risk factor titled “Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could prevent us from benefiting from corporate opportunities that might have otherwise been available to us.” These potential conflicts of interest may make it more difficult for us to favorably resolve disputes that arise between us and Safeway with respect to our past and ongoing relationships and could result in a significant reduction of our revenue. Disputes may arise between Safeway and us in a number of areas relating to our ongoing relationships, including: • labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Safeway; • sales or distributions by Safeway of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; • our ability to engage in activities with certain channel, technology or other marketing partners; • the nature, quality and pricing of services Safeway has agreed to provide us; • business opportunities that may be attractive to both Safeway and us; and • product or technology development or marketing activities which may require the consent of Safeway. Furthermore, under our administrative cooperation agreement with Safeway, we have agreed with Safeway to exchange information that had been regularly provided to the other party prior to our initial public offering, as well as information that is reasonably necessary for certain specified purposes. Until Safeway is no longer required to consolidate our results of operations and financial position (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles), we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to use the same independent registered public accounting firm selected by Safeway, to use reasonable best efforts to timely complete our audit and to provide Safeway with all required financial and other information. Although we are party to a tax sharing agreement with Safeway under which our tax liabilities effectively may be determined as if we were not part of any consolidated, combined or unitary tax group of Safeway and/or its subsidiaries, we nonetheless could be held liable for the tax liabilities of other members of these groups. Historically, we were included in Safeway’s consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as in certain consolidated, combined or unitary groups that include Safeway and/or certain of its subsidiaries for state and local income tax purposes. Under our tax sharing agreement, or TSA, which was amended and restated effective December 30, 2012, we and Safeway generally make payments to each other such that, with respect to U.S. federal income tax returns for any taxable period in which we or any of our subsidiaries are included in Safeway’s consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the amount of taxes to be paid by 38 Table of Contents us is determined, subject to certain adjustments, as if we and each of our subsidiaries included in such consolidated group filed our own consolidated federal income tax return. For state and local income tax purposes, the TSA provides that we and Safeway will generally make payments to each other such that, with respect to state and local income tax returns for any taxable period in which we or any of our subsidiaries are included in Safeway’s combined, consolidated or unitary group for state or local income tax purposes, the amount of taxes to be paid by us is determined, subject to certain limitations, by calculating the excess of any taxes shown due on any such return over the amount that would otherwise be due if the return were recalculated by excluding us and any of our included subsidiaries. Following our initial public offering, we are no longer included in the Safeway consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes and for some state and local income tax purposes. However, each member of a consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes during any part of a consolidated return year is jointly and severally liable for tax on the consolidated return of such year and for any subsequently determined deficiency thereon. Similarly, in some other jurisdictions, each member of a consolidated, combined or unitary group for state, local or foreign income tax purposes is jointly and severally liable for the state, local or foreign income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated, combined or unitary group. Accordingly, for any period in which we were included in the Safeway consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other consolidated, combined or unitary group of Safeway and/or its subsidiaries, we could be liable in the event that any income tax liability was incurred, but not discharged, by any other member of any such group. Under the TSA, we would generally be liable for, among other things, any taxes resulting from the failure of the Spin-off to qualify as a tax-free transaction to the extent such taxes are attributable to, or result from, any act or failure to act by us or certain transactions involving us following the Spin-Off. If neither we nor Safeway are responsible for the failure of the Spin-Off to qualify as a tax-free distribution, we would each be liable for 50% of any resulting taxes. Any such tax liability could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. In addition, under the TSA, upon completion of a Spin-Off intended to be tax-free to Safeway and its stockholders, the Class B common stock would retain 10 votes per share voting power, and we could not seek to change this aspect of our capital structure if it could reasonably be expected to preclude Safeway’s ability to effect a tax-free Spin-Off. We are engaged in discussions with Safeway to amend the TSA for the purpose of accommodating a Spin-Off that may or may not be tax-free to Safeway and its stockholders. As described above under “Risks Related to Our Relationship with Safeway,” the Charter Amendment is intended to help preserve the ability of a Spin-Off to be tax-free for federal income tax purposes in the event such Spin-Off otherwise meets the applicable requirements for tax-free treatment, including in a circumstance in which Safeway does not consummate a strategic transaction involving the sale of Safeway, such as the Merger, that would prevent such tax-free treatment. Whether such a strategic transaction involving the sale of Safeway will be consummated is not expected to be known at the time of the Spin-Off. We believe that if the Spin-Off is completed by mid-April 2014 and the Spin-Off is ultimately determined to be taxable to Safeway, we may realize certain federal and state income tax benefits that are potentially material. In these circumstances, it is anticipated that the amended TSA will provide for an election pursuant to which there will be a step-up in the tax basis of Blackhawk’s assets that could generate approximately $30 million in cash tax savings per annum for Blackhawk. On a present value basis, using a 10% discount rate, over 15 years this tax savings is valued at approximately $230 million. The actual benefits realized will be dependent upon, among other things, Blackhawk generating adequate taxable income to fully utilize the deductions and the value of Blackhawk at the time of the Spin-Off. Though we might be responsible for payment of the estimated taxes associated with the distribution, pursuant to the merger agreement and the TSA, Safeway will be responsible for the corporate tax on the distribution of Blackhawk shares to Safeway shareholders in this situation. It is anticipated the amended TSA will address the manner, amount and timing of the tax payments related to the distribution. In addition, we expect the amended TSA to provide for other circumstances under which we may share tax liabilities and/or benefits with Safeway. We also expect the amended TSA to have the above-described restriction on pursuing a future charter amendment to 39 Table of Contents remove the 10 votes per share voting power of the Class B Common Stock continue for an indefinite term (but in any event at least four years following the Spin-Off), with a provision that this restriction would terminate if the Spin-Off is taxable. Stockholders are cautioned that we do not control the timing of any Spin-Off, whether a Spin-Off will or will not be taxable to Safeway and its stockholders, or the resulting tax impact on Blackhawk. Therefore no assurance can be given that we will realize any tax benefit from a Spin-Off or the amount or timing of any potential tax benefit. If our commercial distribution agreements with Safeway expire or are renewed on less favorable terms, our business, financial conditions or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Revenues generated under our distribution partner agreements with Safeway represented approximately 10.5%, 12.2% and 14.5% of our revenues during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Prior to 2013, the portion of the commissions that we retained pursuant to these agreements was higher than the portion of commissions that we retained pursuant to our other distribution partner agreements and reflected additional services that we provided to Safeway compared to other distribution partners. Effective December 30, 2012, our distribution partner agreements with Safeway were amended to, among other things, extend the term to December 31, 2017 (which was further extended to December 31, 2019 in February 2014) and increase the share of commissions paid to Safeway. The term of these agreements are subject to earlier termination in the event of material breach, insolvency, operational failure of the Blackhawk information technology network or changes to the Blackhawk distribution program that have a material adverse effect on Safeway. The agreements automatically renew for successive five-year terms unless either party elects not to renew the agreements at least 12 months in advance of renewal. There can be no assurance that the agreements will continue to be renewed or, if so, that Safeway will agree to renew the agreements on existing terms. The expiration or termination of these agreements or renewal on less favorable terms to us could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Please see the risk factor titled “Our operating revenues may decline if we lose one or more of our top distribution partners, fail to maintain existing relationships with our distribution partners or fail to attract new distribution partners to our network, or if the financial performance of our distribution partners’ businesses declines.” Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could prevent us from benefiting from corporate opportunities that might have otherwise been available to us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest both to us and Safeway. It provides that if a corporate opportunity is offered to: • one of our officers or employees who is also a director (but not an officer or employee) of Safeway, that opportunity will belong to us unless expressly offered to that person primarily in his or her capacity as a director of Safeway, in which case it will belong to Safeway; • one of our directors who is also an officer or employee of Safeway, that opportunity will belong to Safeway unless expressly offered to that person primarily in his or her capacity as a director of Blackhawk, in which case it will belong to us; and • any person who is either (1) an officer or employee of both us and Safeway or (2) a director of both us and Safeway (but not an officer or employee of either one), that opportunity will belong to Safeway unless expressly offered to that person primarily in his or her capacity as a director of Blackhawk, in which case it will belong to us. In following these procedures, any person who is offered a corporate opportunity will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that any corporate opportunity that belongs to us or Safeway, as the case may be, may not be pursued by the other, unless and until the party to whom the opportunity belongs determines not to pursue the opportunity and so informs the other party. Furthermore, so long as the material facts of any transaction between us and 40 Table of Contents Safeway have been disclosed to or are known by our board of directors or relevant board committee, and the board or such committee (which may, for quorum purposes, include directors who are directors or officers of Safeway) authorizes the transaction by an affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors, then, to the greatest extent permitted by law, Safeway will be deemed to have satisfied its fiduciary duties and will not be liable to us or our stockholders for any breach of fiduciary duty or duty of loyalty relating to that transaction. These provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity that may be pertinent to us could be used for the benefit of Safeway. In order to preserve the ability of Safeway to distribute its shares of our Class B common stock on a tax-free basis, we may be prevented from pursuing opportunities to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide equity incentives to our employees, which could hurt our ability to grow. Beneficial ownership of at least 80% of the total voting power and 80% of each class of nonvoting capital stock, if any, is required in order for Safeway to effect a tax-free Spin-Off of Blackhawk or certain other tax-free transactions. For the immediate future and, until such Spin-Off occurs, Safeway intends to use its majority voting interest to cause Blackhawk to retain the ability to engage in such a transaction. In order to maintain such an ability, Safeway may prevent us from issuing stock or other securities for capital raising purposes, as consideration for an acquisition or as equity incentives to our employees, which could cause us to forego capital raising or acquisition opportunities that would otherwise be available to us and may restrict our ability to incentivize our employees, thus potentially limiting our growth. We are exposed to the unsecured credit risk of Safeway and also dependent on Safeway for cash management and short-term liquidity needs. We have entered into a cash management and treasury services agreement with Safeway. This agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the cash management and credit services provided to us by Safeway and permits Safeway to borrow cash from our operating accounts in excess of our immediate working capital and other operating requirements, calculated in accordance with the agreement, on an overnight basis to meet Safeway’s short-term funding requirements or to be otherwise invested on our behalf. These advances are made pursuant to unsecured promissory notes. In the event of any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization or other bankruptcy proceedings, holders of Safeway’s secured indebtedness will have prior claim to Safeway’s assets that constitute such holders’ collateral. We will participate ratably with all holders of Safeway’s unsecured indebtedness that is deemed to be of the same class as our unsecured promissory notes. In such event, it is possible that Safeway’s remaining assets may be insufficient to satisfy our claims in full. If Safeway were to become insolvent, the return of the cash balances, if at all, could be delayed pending resolution of bankruptcy proceedings. If the return of our overnight cash balances is delayed or prevented, we may have insufficient cash to satisfy our obligations and operate our business. As a result, any such event could adversely affect our reputation and operating revenues. In 2013, the average and largest outstanding principal amounts of cash advances to Safeway were $42.9 million and $595.0 million, respectively. Similarly, the ability of Safeway to provide other services contemplated by the cash management and treasury services agreement, including the ability of Safeway to fund certain of our short-term working capital requirements or provide other forms of credit, are dependent on Safeway’s ability to perform its financial obligations thereunder. If Safeway is unable to comply with its obligations, we may not be able to find alternative sources of credit support to meet our short-term working capital and credit support requirements, either on acceptable terms or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In 2013, the largest outstanding principal amount of our note payable to Safeway was $165.0 million. In addition, in the promissory notes issued to Safeway we also covenant not to incur any liens on our assets without Safeway’s prior consent, which covenant could materially constrain our ability to obtain third party financing in the future while amounts are outstanding to Safeway. In connection with the Spin-Off, the cash management and treasury services agreement with Safeway will be terminated as a condition to entering into a new credit facility currently being negotiated with a group of commercial lenders. Please see “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources of Liquidity.” 41 Table of Contents The distribution of our shares by Safeway could depress our Class A common stock price. As described above under “Risks Related to Our Relationship with Safeway,” the Charter Amendment will result in the shares of our Class B common stock distributed by Safeway to its stockholders in a Spin-Off, whether or not that Spin-Off is tax-free, no longer being convertible into shares of our Class A common stock, which means that our Class B common stock will retain 10 votes per share voting power following the Spin-Off. Following the Spin-Off, our Class B common stock will trade separately from our Class A Common Stock and may trade at different prices per share than our Class A common stock. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with holders of our Class B common stock and limiting the ability of holders of our Class A common stock to influence corporate matters. Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. Our Class B common stock will retain 10 votes per share voting power following the Spin-Off. As of December 28, 2013, holders of our Class B common stock beneficially owned shares representing 97.1% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Due to the 10-to-1 voting ratio between our Class B and Class A common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock collectively control a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock even when the shares of Class B common stock represent a small minority of all outstanding shares of our Class A and Class B common stock, and currently such voting control is concentrated with Safeway. This concentrated control very significantly limits the ability of holders of Class A common stock to influence corporate matters, and, as a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could be materially and adversely affected and may trade at a different price per share than our Class B common stock following the Spin-Off. The market prices of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our stock to decline. The market price of our Class A common stock and, following the Spin-Off, our Class B common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Since the Offering through March 3, 2014, the market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated from a low of $20.25 per share to a high of $29.73 per share. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations in the market prices of our common stock include: • failure to sustain an active, liquid trading market for our shares; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or failure to meet analysts’ performance expectations; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; • sales of our capital stock by our directors or executive officers or the distribution of our capital stock by Safeway in the Spin-Off; • actions by or changes in our relationship with Safeway (see “Risks Related to Our Relationship with Safeway” above); • the gain or loss of significant distribution partners or content providers; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • litigation involving us, our industry or both; 42 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; • regulatory developments in the United States and/or foreign countries; • investors’ general perception of us; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention as well as our other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The existence of multiple classes of common stock may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our Class A common stock. The holders of Class B common stock are entitled to 10 votes per share, and the holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share. Our Class B common stock will retain 10 votes per share voting power following the Spin-Off. The difference in the voting rights of our Class A and Class B common stock could harm the value of the Class A common stock to the extent that any current or future investor in our common stock ascribes value to the rights of the holders of our Class B common stock to 10 votes per share. In addition, following the Spin-Off, shares of Class B common stock will no longer be convertible into shares of Class A common stock. In connection with the Spin-Off, our Class B common will be stock listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The existence of multiple classes of common stock could result in less liquidity for our Class A common stock and could depress the price of our Class A common stock. We incur significant costs as a public company and laws and regulations applicable to public companies may divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also incur costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), the Dodd-Frank Act and related rules implemented or to be implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. The rules and regulations associated with being a public company also may make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept constraints on policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers and may divert management’s attention. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our Class A common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. We are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse findings from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies and ultimately have an adverse effect on the market prices of our common stock. We are required, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with the 2014 43 Table of Contents fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, as well as an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency or combination of control deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. We cannot provide any guarantee that there will not be material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal controls. If our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations and lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the prices of our common stock to decline. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, regulatory investigations, civil or criminal sanctions and class action litigation. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Our anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent a change of control, which could adversely affect the prices of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make it difficult to remove our board of directors and management and may discourage or delay “change of control” transactions, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include, among others: • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which prevents the minority stockholders from electing director candidates so long as Safeway holds a majority of the voting rights of our common stock; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • from and after such time as Safeway no longer holds a majority of the voting rights of our common stock, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • from and after such time as Safeway no longer holds a majority of the voting rights of our common stock, special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by our corporate secretary at the direction of our board of directors; 44 Table of Contents • advance notice and other requirements that stockholders, other than Safeway for so long as it holds a majority of the voting rights of our common stock, must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors and propose matters to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; • from and after such time as Safeway holds less than a majority of the voting rights of our common stock, a majority stockholder vote is required for removal of a director only for cause (and a director may only be removed for cause), and a 75% stockholder vote is required for the amendment, repeal or modification of certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and • our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, issue series of preferred stock, or rights to acquire preferred stock, that could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, holders of our Class A common stock or could also be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control. Certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law also apply to our company. After Safeway ceases to own 15% of our voting stock (including as a result of the Spin-Off), we will be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under Section 203, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Furthermore, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation specifies that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for most legal actions involving actions brought against us by stockholders. We believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law by chancellors particularly experienced in resolving corporate disputes, efficient administration of cases on a more expedited schedule relative to other forums and protection against the burdens of multi-forum litigation. However, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies’ certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our share price to fall. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of March 3, 2014, we had 12,338,433 shares of Class A common stock outstanding and 40,188,037 shares of Class B common stock outstanding. The holders of approximately 76.5% of our outstanding common stock based on shares outstanding as of March 3, 2014, including Safeway, are entitled to rights with respect to registration of such shares under the Securities Act pursuant to a stockholders’ agreement. In addition, upon exercise of outstanding stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units by our employees, our employees will be entitled to rights with respect to registration of the Class B common stock acquired on exercise of such equity awards, as well as shares of Class B common stock held by our employees that are currently subject to repurchase rights and will become eligible for registration when such repurchase rights lapse. If such holders, by exercising their registration rights, sell a large number of shares, they could adversely affect the market prices for our common stock. If we file a registration statement for the purposes of selling additional shares of Class A common stock to raise capital, and are required to include shares held by these holders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, our ability to raise capital may be impaired. In addition, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register 7,928,768 shares of common stock for issuance under our 2006 Plan, 2007 Plan and 2013 Equity Incentive Award Plan and 2,000,000 shares of Class A common stock for issuance under 45 Table of Contents our 2013 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Upon issuance and once vested, these shares can be freely sold in the public market pursuant to the applicable plan and/or the agreements for the equity awards entered into with holders of such equity awards. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 