Risk Factors An investment in our ADSs involves significant risks. You should consider carefully all of the information in this annual report, including the risks and uncertainties described below, before making an investment in our ADSs. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In any such case, the market price of our ADSs could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We focus mostly on the financial services industry. Our growth depends on the growth of financial services companies in China and their IT investment. The recent growth of financial services companies in China and their IT investment may not continue, and our revenues may not grow or may even decline. We may be adversely affected by the recent slowdown in China’s economy and the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets. We derive substantially all our revenues from the financial services industry, and our recent revenue growth has been driven by growth in both China’s financial services industry and related IT solutions and service spending by industry participants. This growth may not continue at the same rate or at all. We believe substantial changes in the financial services industry, including decreasing profit margins in certain sectors, regulatory and technological changes and other trends, in recent years have led to increased IT solutions and services spending. A reduction in the rate of change could reduce demand for our software solutions and services and our revenues may not grow or may even decline. The financial services industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions and unforeseen events, including political instability, recession, inflation or other adverse occurrences. In the first quarter of the 2009 calendar year, the reported growth rate of China’s gross domestic product decreased to 6.1%, down from growth at a rate of 9.0% for the 2008 calendar year and from a rate of 13% for the 2007 calendar year, and the worldwide economy is currently suffering a severe downturn precipitated by a crisis in the financial services and credit markets. Although we do not believe that our business has been adversely affected to date, this overall slowing in the rate of growth of China’s economy, coupled with the worldwide economic downturn, may cause slower or even negative growth in China’s financial services industry and result in decreased consumer and corporate use of financial services, or increased pressure on banks to develop, implement and maintain solutions in-house, which could harm our results of operations and business prospects. 4 Table of Contents We depend on a few clients for a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence is likely to continue. If we fail to obtain business from these key existing clients, our revenues will decline. Historically we have depended on two of the four state-controlled national banks, or Big Four banks, for the majority of our revenues. In the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, two of the Big Four banks together accounted for 80% and 72% of our total revenues. We subsequently increased our business with a third Big Four bank. In the year ended March 31, 2009, our three Big Four Bank customers each accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue and collectively accounted for 44% of our revenues, with the largest of these Big Four Banks accounting for 22% of our revenues. We do not have long-term contracts with these banks. We enter into contracts with bank headquarters or branches with independent procurement authority. Each contract is for the provision of solutions or services for the duration of the relevant project or services. We expect that a significant portion of our sales will continue to be generated by a small number of clients. To anticipate our client’s future IT needs, build their trust and develop suitable solutions, we must maintain close relationships with our key clients. Any failure to maintain one of these close relationships, due to unsuccessful sales and marketing efforts, lack of suitable solutions, unsatisfactory performance or other reasons, could result in our losing a client and its business. If we lose a key client, a key client significantly reduces its purchasing levels or delays a major purchase or we fail to attract additional major clients, our revenues could decline. We may lose our clients and our financial results would suffer if our clients change the decision-making body for their IT procurement or investment, merge with or are acquired by other financial services companies, develop their own in-house capabilities or fail to expand. Our business may be adversely affected if our business with our clients is reduced due to the following reasons: • Our clients may change their decision-making body for making IT investments and key decision makers may change. The decision to purchase our software solutions and services is in some cases made by bank headquarters and in other cases by local bank branch offices. For each key client, we use a sales team dedicated to maintaining close relationships with the relevant IT procurement decision-makers. We build these extensive relationships over the course of several years. However, IT purchasing authority may become more centralized or transferred to different bodies. If a bank centralizes purchasing decisions or otherwise changes the decision making body or level within the bank at which the purchase decision is made or a key decision-maker is replaced, transferred or leaves the bank, our client relationships may be disrupted and we may be unable to effectively and timely restore these relationships. • Consolidation of our clients and growth of in-house capabilities. There is a growing trend for financial institutions in China to consolidate. As these institutions grow in size, they may exert pricing pressure on vendors, and/or find it more cost-effective to set up their own IT departments or divisions to meet their IT needs, instead of relying on third-party companies for solutions and services. In addition, as restrictions against foreign ownership in banking and insurance industries ease, more foreign investors may acquire stakes in or form strategic alliances with PRC financial institutions, and may direct or influence management to use IT vendors recommended or favored by the investor, leading to lost or reduced business with these existing clients. • Our clients fail to expand. The financial services industry in China is becoming increasingly competitive. Our clients may not successfully compete with their domestic and foreign competitors in the future. If our key clients suffer a reduced market share or their results of operations and financial condition are otherwise adversely affected, they may reduce their IT spending and change expansion plans for their IT systems, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our growth and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents We transferred to our clients our intellectual property rights in several of our customized software solutions and may not own all the intellectual property rights to our software solutions subsequently sold to others. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from these clients and others, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially disrupt our business and materially affect our gross margin and net income. Over half of our customized software solutions contracts between December 2006 and September 2007 and some of our customized software solutions contracts prior to December 2006 provide that the contracting client owns the intellectual property rights to software solutions developed under the contracts. Most of these contracts provide that we have the right to own and commercialize any substantial improvements we make to the customized software solutions developed under the contracts. A small number of these affected contracts either do not explicitly provide us with these rights or provide that we do not have these rights. A small number of our now-discontinued standardized software solutions were based on, and our future standardized solutions may be derived from, at least in part, customized software solutions developed under our customized solutions. As a result of this practice, we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from these clients and others (including disputes from clients as to whether we have sufficiently modified the underlying customized software solutions). In October 2007, we implemented more stringent criteria for approving IP-related provisions in our client contracts. Since then, overall contracts providing that our clients own the intellectual property rights to customized software solutions developed under these contracts account for less than 35% of all of our customized contracts. However, of those affected contracts: (1) the substantial majority provide that we have the right to own and commercialize any substantial improvements we make to the customized software solutions developed for clients and (2) the balance—where we have no such rights—account for less than 5% of all of our customized contracts. In addition, we seek to limit those contracts where we do not have those commercialization rights to improvements made by us to (x) new phases for pre-existing projects, where it is commercially difficult to change pre-existing contractual terms, and (y) projects where we view the technology involved as unlikely to be used for future customized or standardized solutions. In addition, in a small number of our software solutions contracts, we have joint ownership rights with our clients to improvements we subsequently make based on technologies and software solutions developed under these contracts. As a result, we may be subject to profit-sharing claims to our later developed solutions that may be deemed “improvements” to solutions we initially developed under these contracts. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using these intellectual property rights, or we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we typically indemnify clients who purchase our solutions against potential infringement of intellectual property rights underlying those solutions, and are therefore subject to indemnity claim risks. We may incur substantial expenses defending third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement, licensing or indemnity claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, reputational harm, lost sales and lower gross margins which may materially and adversely affect our business, gross margin and net income. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could cause a loss of clients, reduce our revenues and harm our competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, software registration, anti-unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. As of March 31, 2009, we had three pending patent applications in China. A patent filing may not result in an issued patent and an issued patent may not sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, our current lack of patent protection may prevent us from being able to stop any unauthorized use of our software or other intellectual property. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators are required to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements might not provide meaningful protection for the trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Implementation of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which could harm our business and competitive position. Though we are not currently involved in any litigation with respect to intellectual property, we may need to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Litigation relating to our intellectual property may not prove successful and might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 6 Table of Contents We may be unable to effectively execute projects, maintain, expand or renew existing client engagements and obtain new clients if we fail to attract, train, motivate and retain quality employees, particularly highly skilled engineers and mid-level managers, who can effectively perform the services offered by us. We depend on highly skilled engineers and mid-level managers, constituting the bulk of our employee base, to effectively develop and deliver our solutions and services. Recently, the growth of our business has been and may continue to be limited by our ability to attract, train and retain these qualified individuals. The market for qualified and experienced engineers throughout China is highly competitive, particularly in the areas of software programming and system engineering for the financial services industry. Our hiring activities could also expose us to trade secret or other claims by former employers or adversely impact any existing relationships we have with our employees’ former employers. We may be unable to retain our current workforce or hire additional personnel as planned. If we cannot hire these additional employees, or if we fail to provide appropriate training, career opportunities and otherwise motivate and retain our quality employees, we may not be able to execute our growth strategies and our business could suffer. Increases in wages for IT professionals will increase our expenses and net cash outflow and our gross margin and profit margin may decline. Historically, wages for comparably skilled technical personnel in the Chinese IT services industry have been lower than in developed countries, such as in the U.S. or Europe. In recent years, wages in China’s IT services industry have increased and may continue to increase at faster rates. Wage increases will increase our cost of software solutions and IT services of the same quality and increase our cost of operations. In the long term, unless offset by increases in efficiency and productivity of our work force, wage increases may also result in increased prices for our solutions and services, making us potentially less competitive. Increases in wages, including an increase in the cash component of our compensation expenses, will also increase our net cash outflow and our gross margin and profit margin may decline. Fluctuations in our clients’ annual IT budget and spending cycle and other factors can cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. Our revenues and operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Most of our clients in the financial services industry determine their annual IT investment plans and budgets in the last quarter of each calendar year and do not finalize their annual spending plans until the first quarter of the following year. For our customized solutions, we generally incur costs evenly during the project life while most of the related revenues are generated later in the project as we reach project milestones and complete projects. Also, the Chinese New Year holiday typically falls between late January and February of each year. As a result, relatively few contracts are signed in the first calendar quarter, with an increase in the second calendar quarter and with most of our contracts signed and completed in the third and fourth calendar quarters. Due to the annual budget cycles of most of our clients, we also may be unable to accurately estimate the demand for our solutions and services beyond the immediate calendar year, which could adversely affect our business planning. Moreover, our results will vary depending on our clients’ business needs from year to year. Due to these and other factors, our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. These fluctuations are likely to continue in the future, and operating results for any period may not be indicative of our future performance in any future period. 7 Table of Contents A significant portion of the software development revenues we generate are fixed amounts according to our sales contracts. If we fail to accurately estimate costs and determine resource requirements in relation to our projects, our margins and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. A significant portion of the software development revenues we generate are fixed amounts according to our sales contracts or bids we submit. Our projects often involve complex technologies and must often be completed within compressed timeframes and meet increasingly sophisticated client requirements. We may be unable to accurately assess the time and resources required for completing projects and price our projects accordingly. If we underestimate the time or resources required we may experience cost overruns and mismatches in project staffing. Conversely, if we overestimate requirements, our bids may become uncompetitive and we may lose business as a result. Furthermore, any failure to complete a project within the stipulated timeframe could expose us to contractual and other liabilities and damage our reputation. We may be forced to reduce the prices of our software products due to shortened product life cycles, increased competition and reduced bargaining power with our clients, which could lead to reduced revenues and profitability. The software and IT services industry in China is developing rapidly and related technology trends are constantly evolving. This results in frequent introduction of new products and services, shortening product life cycles and significant price competition from our competitors. As the life cycle of a software product matures, the average selling price of the same product generally declines. A shortening life cycle of our software products generally could result in price erosion for these products if we are unable to introduce new products, or if our new products are not favorably received by our clients. We may be unable to offset the effect of declining average sales prices through increased sales volumes and/or reductions in our costs. Furthermore, we may be forced to reduce the prices of our software products in response to offerings made by our competitors. Finally, we may not have the same level of bargaining power we have enjoyed in the past when it comes to negotiating for the prices of our software products. Any decrease in our level of standardized software solutions, including as a result of the unpredictable development cycle of our standardized software solutions, may cause our revenues and gross profit to decline. Revenues from sales of our standardized software constituted 52.5%, 23.1%, 32.7% and 31.5% of our total software development revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, the three months ended March 31, 2007, and the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively, representing a substantial portion of our total revenues. Almost all of our software development cost of revenue relates to our customized software solutions. We may fail to develop standardized solutions as expected and the development cycle of our standardized software can be unpredictable. If we experience a change in the sales levels for our standardized software solutions, due to delays in the development process for a significant number of standardized solutions or otherwise, our revenues and gross profit could be materially and adversely affected as a result. The software and IT-related services market for financial institutions in China is highly competitive, and we may fail to compete successfully, thereby resulting in loss of clients and decline in our revenues and profit margins. The software and IT-related services market for financial institutions in China is intensely competitive and is characterized by frequent technological changes, evolving industry standards and changing client demands. Our most significant competition comes from the in-house IT departments of our customers. We also face competition from well-funded international platform providers, such as Accenture, IBM, domestic IT solution providers for the financial service industry, such as Digital China Holdings Limited, Yucheng Technologies Limited, Global InfoTech Group and other targeted solutions providers in certain market segments in which we operate. We expect competition to increase from domestic and international competitors as additional companies compete to meet the IT requirements of financial institutions in China. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and inability to gain or hold market share. 8 Table of Contents Changes in technology could adversely affect our business by increasing our costs, reducing our profit margins and causing a decline in our competitiveness. The markets for our software and IT-related services change rapidly because of technological innovation, new product introductions, declining prices and evolving industry standards, among other factors. New solutions and new technology often render existing solutions and services obsolete, excessively costly or otherwise unmarketable. As a result, our success depends on our ability to keep up with the latest technological progress and to develop or acquire and integrate new technologies into our software and IT-related services. Advances in technology also require us to commit substantial resources to developing or acquiring and then deploying new technologies for use in our operations. We must continuously train personnel in new technologies and in how to integrate existing hardware and software systems with these new technologies. We may be unable to continue to commit the resources necessary to keep our competitive technological advantages and our ability to effectively compete in the market may suffer as a result. We are relatively new to the insurance and corporate areas in China and our experience in the banking industry in China may not be transferable to these areas. We are relatively new to the insurance and corporate areas in China. Our knowledge and experience in the banking industry may not be transferable to the insurance and corporate areas. If we do not possess or if we fail to develop the required expertise in these new areas, our growth may be adversely affected. In April 2009, we agreed to acquire the assets of Sysnet Info-tech Corporation, or Sysnet, an IT services provider focused on China’s insurance industry. Although this acquisition is subject to PRC regulatory approvals (such as the approval by the competent local counterparts of the Ministry of Commerce and the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the PRC), we have already paid $16,240,179 of the purchase price to the sellers. We currently expect to close the transaction before September 30, 2009, but closing could be delayed or may not occur at all if we do not receive the required governmental approvals. If we cannot successfully complete the acquisition of Sysnet, we may face difficulties in recouping the previously paid purchase price, be unable to expand our offered solutions to our existing insurance clients and our business operations in connection with China’s insurance industry may be adversely affected. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may be adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate our growth, we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce and manage our client relationships. Moreover, as we introduce new solutions and services or enter into new markets, we may face new market, technological and operational risks and challenges with which we are unfamiliar. All of these endeavors will involve risks and require substantial management effort and skill. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively and any failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unsuccessful in identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, which could adversely affect our growth. Historically, we have added new solutions or services and acquired additional clients through selected acquisitions. We expect selective acquisitions of high-quality financial IT services companies will contribute to our future growth. We may not be able, however, to identify suitable future acquisition candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we may be unable to complete an acquisition on terms commercially acceptable to us or to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. If we fail to identify appropriate candidates or complete desired acquisitions, we may not be able to implement our growth strategies effectively or efficiently. In addition, our management attention may be diverted by the acquisition and integration process. As a result, our earnings, revenues growth and business could be negatively affected. 9 Table of Contents We do not hold all of the permits or licenses that are required under PRC laws for the businesses that we are conducting or propose to conduct. According to the Regulation on Telecommunications of the People’s Republic of China and the Regulation on Internet Information Service of the People’s Republic of China, both of which were promulgated by China’s State Council in September 2005, a PRC company engaged in the provision of online value-added telecommunication services is required to obtain some certificates for Value-added Telecommunications Business from the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT, or its relevant local branch. Xiamen Longtop Online Technology Co., Ltd. (formerly, Xiamen Bizcn Network Co., Ltd.), or Longtop Online, our variable interest entity, or VIE, and its subsidiaries which provide online hosting services (which are regarded as a kind of online value-added telecommunication service) have not yet obtained the inter-provincial Certificate for Value-added Telecommunications Business . The failure of Longtop Online and its subsidiaries to obtain this certificate could lead to administrative fines or an order to discontinue the operation of these entities, both of which could have adverse effect on our business and operations. We face risks once a business is acquired and the acquired companies may not perform to our expectations, either of which may adversely affect our results of operations. We face risks when we acquire other businesses. These risks include: • difficulties in the integration of acquired operations and retention of personnel, • entry into unfamiliar markets, • unforeseen or hidden liabilities, • tax, regulatory and accounting issues, and • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition costs. Acquired companies may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel or, as a result, key clients, and our strategic focus may change. As a result, we may not realize the benefit we anticipated. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses or realize the expected benefit, we may lose the return on the investment in these acquisitions, incur transaction costs and our operations may be negatively impacted as a result. The PRC tax authorities may require us to pay additional taxes in connection with our acquisitions of offshore entities that conducted their PRC operations through their affiliates in China. Our operations and transactions are subject to review by the PRC tax authorities pursuant to relevant PRC laws and regulations. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, in the case of some of our completed and pending acquisitions of offshore entities (or their assets) that conducted their PRC operations through their affiliates in China, we cannot assure you that the PRC tax authorities will not require us to pay additional taxes in relation to such acquisitions, in particular where the PRC tax authorities take the view that the previous taxable income of the PRC affiliates of the acquired offshore entities needs to be adjusted and additional taxes be paid. This could come in the form of a re-characterization of the transaction for tax purposes, a claim for withholding or other exposure. Furthermore, in the event that the sellers failed to pay any taxes required under PRC law in connection with these transactions, the PRC tax authorities might require us to pay the tax, together with late-payment interest and penalties. 10 Table of Contents Defects in our software, errors in our systems integration or maintenance services or our failure to perform our professional services could result in a loss of clients and decrease in revenues, unexpected expenses and a reduction in market share. Our software solutions are complex and may contain defects, errors and bugs when first introduced to the market or to a particular client, or as new versions are released. Because we cannot test for all possible scenarios, our solutions may contain errors which are not discovered until after they have been installed and we may not be able to correct these problems on a timely basis. These defects, errors or bugs could interrupt or delay completion of projects or sales to our clients. In addition, our reputation may be damaged and we may fail to obtain new projects from existing clients or new clients. We may make mistakes when we provide systems integration and maintenance services. We also provide a range of IT services, including ATM maintenance, system integration and other ancillary services, and must meet stringent quality requirements for performing these services. If we fail to meet these requirements, we may be subject to claims for breach of contracts with our clients. Any such claim or adverse resolution of such claim against us may hurt our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our costs could increase substantially if we suffer a significant number of warranty claims for third party hardware and software procured on behalf of our clients and the manufacturers or their agents do not provide the back-to-back warranties that they have contracted to provide to us. With our system integration services, we assist clients with the procurement and installation of hardware and software which best meets their system requirements. We assist our clients in managing the equipment manufacturers, obtaining bids and proposals on their behalf, negotiating terms and where required monitoring the installation and testing, which is normally provided by the manufacturers. In some contracts, we may also provide financing to our clients. Where warranty is required, we obtain, on behalf of our clients, manufacturers’ warranties and support for the third party hardware and software. On behalf of our clients we procure equipment from major international technology companies, including BEA, BMC, Cisco, Dell, Diebold, EMC, IBM, Microsoft, Nortel and Oracle. Our warranties include service for both hardware and our and third-party software solutions. Although we arrange back-to-back warranties with hardware and software vendors, we have the contractual responsibility to maintain the installed hardware and software. Most of our contracts do not have disclaimers or limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages nor do we cap the amounts recoverable for damages. We may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from occurrence of natural catastrophes, acts of terrorism or fires, and we have limited insurance coverage. We currently do not have insurance against business interruptions. Should any natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, typhoons or any acts of terrorism occur in Xiamen or Beijing, where our PRC head offices are located and most of our employees are based, or elsewhere in China, we might suffer not only significant property damages, but also loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, we may suffer substantial losses due to interruptions caused by a severe fire. Some of our contracts with clients contain termination clauses and expose us to penalties or other contractual liabilities, which could result in unexpected expenses or declined revenues. Some of our contracts with clients permit termination in the event our performance is not consistent with the quality and other standards specified in those contracts. The ability of our clients to terminate contracts creates an uncertain revenue stream. If our clients are not satisfied with our level of performance, our reputation in the industry may suffer, which may also materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our contracts provide for penalties upon the occurrence of certain events such as if we failed to meet a specified timetable or failed to achieve certain quality or other standards. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that we will incur significant penalties in performing these contracts. In addition, the failure of our technology suppliers to deliver the necessary hardware and components in accordance with our specifications could result in our default under our contracts with our clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents We depend on third-party technologies and third-party technology suppliers. If these technologies and suppliers are not available to us at reasonable costs or at all, our expenses may increase, our profit margins may decline and any resulting contractual defaults may harm our reputation, result in a loss of clients and decreased revenues. Our solutions are designed to work on or in conjunction with third-party hardware and software solutions. If any third party were to discontinue making their solutions available to us or our clients on a timely basis, or increase materially the cost of their solutions, or if our solutions failed to properly use or interoperate with their hardware or software solutions, our solutions would have to be redesigned to function with or on alternative third-party solutions, or we may be precluded from selling the solutions. An alternative source of suitable technology may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, and we may be unable to develop an alternative product on a timely basis or at a reasonable cost. Our failure or inability to license, acquire or develop alternative technologies or solutions on a timely basis or at a reasonable cost could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our technology suppliers’ failure to deliver the necessary hardware and components in accordance with our specifications could result in our default under our contracts with our clients, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our management and other key personnel. If we lose their services, we could incur significant costs in finding suitable replacements and our business may be severely disrupted. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our management and other key personnel. In particular, we rely on the expertise and experience of Hiu Kung Ka (Mr. Ka is also referred to as Xiaogong Jia, which is a transliteration of the Mandarin Chinese version of his name), our chairman of the board of directors, Wai Chau Lin (Mr. Lin is also referred to as Weizhou Lian, which is a transliteration of the Mandarin Chinese version of his name), our chief executive officer, Derek Palaschuk, our chief financial officer, Zhao Wei, our senior vice president of Mergers and Acquisitions, and Wei Dong, our senior vice president of Solution Center. If one or more of our management or key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. Our business may be severely disrupted, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel. If any of our management or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, suppliers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have signed employment agreements with us and most of our senior employees have entered into employment agreements with Xiamen Longtop Financial Technology Management Co., Ltd., or XLM. While the employment agreements with us contain non-competition provisions, the employment agreements with XLM do not contain such provisions. Moreover, if any dispute arises between our chief executive officer or chief financial officer and us, the non-competition provisions contained in their employment agreements may not be enforceable, especially in China, where most of these executive officers reside, on the ground that we have not provided adequate compensation to these executive officers for their non-competition obligations, which is required under the relevant PRC regulations. Our business benefits from certain government incentives. Expiration, reduction or discontinuation of, or changes to, these incentives will reduce our net income. The PRC government has provided various incentives to domestic companies in the software industry in order to encourage development of the software industry in China. A number of our PRC subsidiaries currently receive rebates, business tax exemptions and are eligible for government incentives in the form of reduced enterprise income tax as described below. For some of our software solutions, we are entitled to receive a 14% refund on the total VAT payable of 17% if we have registered the copyright for these solutions and met government authorities’ requirements. In addition, we are currently exempted from business tax for revenues generated from technology development, transfer and related consulting services. We receive these government incentives because our PRC subsidiaries are domestic software companies in China, our PRC operations office is located in Xiamen or our services fall into specified categories. The PRC government authorities may reduce or eliminate these incentives at any time in the future. Additionally, in order to continue to qualify for some of these incentives, we are required to meet stringent requirements on our gross revenues. 12 Table of Contents The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment currently available to us and the increase in the rate of corporate income tax in the PRC could in each case result in a decrease in our net income. Any significant increase in our income tax expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profit for the year. Reduction or elimination of preferential tax treatments or the imposition of additional taxes on us or our consolidated entities in China may significantly increase our income tax expenses and materially reduce our net income. A new PRC Corporate Income Tax Law and related regulations became effective January 1, 2008. The Corporate Income Tax Law, among other things, imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% for both domestic and foreign invested enterprises. The previous income tax laws and rules, which stipulated income tax rates for domestic and foreign invested enterprises at different rates, expired upon the effectiveness of the Corporate Income Tax Law. While certain of our subsidiaries, including our primary operating subsidiary, Xiamen Longtop System Co., Ltd., or Longtop System, have qualified for preferential tax rates under the Corporate Income Tax Law as “high and new technology enterprises” at a rate of 15% and Longtop System has been designated as a “key software enterprise” and therefore taxed at a further reduced rate of 10% for the calendar year ended December 31, 2008. The preferential treatment for high and new technology enterprises will be subject to review every three years and the preferential treatment for the key software enterprises will be subject to review annually by the relevant PRC government authorities, and we cannot assure you that they will continue to so qualify in future periods, or that such designation will be available for any of our other subsidiaries. If any of our PRC subsidiaries fails to qualify for preferential tax rates, our income tax expenses will increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC corporation income tax purposes; such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. The PRC Corporate Income Tax Law that became effective January 1, 2008 provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income. A recent circular issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-invested enterprises established outside of China as “resident enterprises” states that dividends paid by such “resident enterprises” and capital gains recognized with respect to the sale of the shares of such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when received or recognized by non-PRC shareholders. This recent circular also subjects such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation regulations to the Corporate Income Tax, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, the recent circular mentioned above specifies that certain Chinese-invested enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the directors or senior management having voting rights. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise,” we may be subject to income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income and dividends paid by us to our non-PRC shareholders as well as capital gains recognized by them with respect to the sale of our stock may be subject to a PRC withholding tax. This could have the effect of increasing our effective income tax rate and could also have an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, and may require us to deduct withholding tax amounts from any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders. We are actively monitoring the “resident enterprise” classification rules and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. 13 Table of Contents Interest and dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the Corporate Income Tax Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10%, or a lower rate if tax treaty benefits are available, is applicable to interest and dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such interest or dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax or a lower rate if tax treaty benefits are available, if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” the interest or dividends we pay with respect to our notes, ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, might be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are deemed to be a PRC “resident enterprise,” dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to our Hong Kong company and ultimately to our Cayman Islands company, could be exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax, and dividends from Cayman Islands company to ultimate shareholders who are PRC domestic residents would be subject to PRC individual income tax at 20%. Since we intend to reinvest our earnings to further expand our businesses in mainland China, our foreign invested enterprises do not intend to declare dividends to their immediate foreign holding companies in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, as of March 31, 2009, we have not recorded any withholding tax on the retained earnings of our foreign invested enterprises in China. If we are required under the Corporate Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on interest or dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our notes, ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Any significant failure in our information technology systems could subject us to contractual liabilities to our clients, harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business and operations are highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to timely process various transactions across different markets and solutions. The proper functioning of our financial control, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems, together with the communication systems between our various subsidiaries and delivery centers and our main offices in Xiamen, is critical to our business and to our ability to compete effectively. Our business activities may be materially disrupted in the event of a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology or communication systems, which could be caused by, among other things, software malfunction, computer virus attacks, conversion errors due to system upgrading, damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry or other events beyond our control. We could also experience system interruptions due to the failure of their systems to function as intended or the failure of the systems relied upon to deliver services such as ATM networks, the Internet, or the systems of financial institutions, processors that integrate with other systems and networks and systems of third parties. Loss of all or part of the systems for a period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business and business reputation. We may be liable to our clients for breach of contract for interruptions in service. Due to the numerous variables surrounding system disruptions, the extent or amount of any potential liability cannot be predicted. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, systems by third parties or employees. A hacker who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. Although we intend to continue to implement security measures, computer attacks or disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through computer systems of our customers. Actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to such attacks or disruptions may deter financial services providers and consumers from using our solutions or services. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. 14 Table of Contents Data networks are also vulnerable to attacks, unauthorized access and disruptions. For example, in a number of public networks, hackers have bypassed firewalls and misappropriated confidential information. It is possible that, despite existing safeguards, an employee could divert our customers’ funds, exposing us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Losses or liabilities that are incurred as a result of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to establish or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may, therefore, be adversely impacted. Beginning with this annual report, we are required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and rules of the SEC under Sarbanes Oxley to prepare a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we are required to engage our independent registered public accountant to audit the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As defined in the standards established by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a “deficiency” in internal control over financial reporting exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. A deficiency in design exists when (a) a control necessary to meet the control objective is missing or (b) an existing control is not properly designed so that, even if the control operates as designed, the control objective would not be met. A deficiency in operation exists when a properly designed control does not operate as designed, or when the person performing the control does not possess the necessary authority or competence to perform the control effectively. A “significant deficiency’ is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the company’s financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement in a company’s financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls sufficiently to prevent any material weaknesses, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and have an adverse impact the market price of our ordinary shares. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in complying with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. We have granted, and may continue to grant, stock options and restricted share units under our share incentive plan, resulting in increased share-based compensation expenses and, therefore, reduced net income. We adopted a share incentive plan in 2005 and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 recorded $5.6 million as share-based compensation expenses. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment”, we are required to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense in the statement of operations based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. The additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of issuing stock options and restricted share units under our share incentive plan. However, if we do not grant stock options or restricted share units or reduce the number of stock options and restricted share units that we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more stock options and restricted share units to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with share-based compensation will reduce our net income. 15 Table of Contents Other Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our solutions and adversely affect our competitive position. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • allocation of resources. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the PRC economy, which have been made from time to time, could result in a decrease in the country’s average income level, which in turn could reduce demand for our solutions. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our solutions and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC laws and regulations could limit legal protections available to us or adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. Our PRC subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have no precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 16 Table of Contents In addition, under the Interim Provisions on Domestic Investment of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or Domestic Investment Rules, promulgated by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, foreign-invested enterprises investing in and establishing PRC companies are required to file a number of documents relating to such establishment with the relevant governmental approving authority. Xiamen Longtop System Co., Ltd, or XLS, and Xiamen Longtop Financial Technology Management Co., Ltd., or XLM, two of our wholly foreign owned enterprises in Xiamen, China that have established PRC companies, contacted the Xiamen Foreign Investment Bureau, the relevant governmental approving authority in Xiamen regarding the filing of the relevant investment documents as required under the Domestic Investment Rules. However, the Xiamen Foreign Investment Bureau has not begun to accept applications under the Domestic Investment Rules, because implementation rules detailing the filing and approval procedures have not yet been issued. Notwithstanding that XLS and XLM have not been able to file completed applications because the Xiamen Foreign Investment Bureau has not begun to accept applications, it is possible that XLS and XLM could be found not to have completed the required filings under the Domestic Investment Rules and as a consequence be subject to administrative fines, which may disrupt our business and operations. We rely principally on dividends paid by our operating subsidiaries to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and fund our operations. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries, which are limited liability companies established in China. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our Chinese subsidiaries are also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of their registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, they are required to allocate a portion of their after-tax profit to their staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of their respective boards of directors. Moreover, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends and other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business In utilizing the proceeds of our initial public offering as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. We may also decide to finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In August 2008, SAFE promulgated a notice, or Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice provides that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer our existing cash to our PRC operating subsidiaries, which may adversely affect our business expansion, and we may not be able to convert our cash into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. 17 Table of Contents Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues and cash balances effectively. Substantially all of our revenues, expenses and cash balances are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, including overseas acquisitions, that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the National Development and Reform Commission or the NDRC, the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. If the PRC government determines that the variable interest entity, or VIE, structure for certain companies acquired by us does not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in companies providing Internet services, we could face severe penalties. We recently acquired control, through contractual arrangements, of three small companies engaged in the provision of value-added telecommunication services, including domain name sales and hosting services. Various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign-invested entities from engaging in value-added telecommunication services. Because of these restrictions, we used a variable interest entity, or VIE, structure to maintain our control over Xiamen Longtop Online Technology Co., Ltd. (formerly, Xiamen Bizcn Network Co., Ltd.), or Longtop Online, and its subsidiaries Xiamen Hooyoo Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Hooyoo, and Xiamen Reseller Order Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Xiamen Reseller, recently acquired by us. Two of our employees are acting as nominee equity owners of Longtop Online, which is effectively controlled by our subsidiary, Xiamen Longtop Financial Technology Management Co., Ltd., or XLM, through a series of contractual arrangements. If Longtop Online or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders fails to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. These contractual arrangements also include an equity pledge agreement, under which the shareholders of Longtop Online pledged their equity interest in Longtop Online to XLM to guarantee the performance of the obligations of Longtop Online and its shareholders, as applicable, under the contractual arrangements. Under the PRC Property Rights Law which came into effect on October 1, 2007, a pledge of a company’s equity interests will become effective only upon registration with the relevant government authority. As of the date of this annual report, we are still in the process of registering these pledges with the relevant government authorities. If it is found that any of these pledges are not effective, XLM will not 18 Table of Contents be able to enforce that pledge. Failure to enforce these pledges will leave us with fewer remedies in enforcing our contracts with our affiliated entities. If we cannot effectively enforce our contractual arrangements with Longtop Online and its shareholders, our business and our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will ultimately take a view that (i) the ownership structure and the business and operation model of Longtop Online are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations, and (ii) each contract that XLM entered into with Longtop Online and its shareholders is valid and binding, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. If we are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income, revoking business or operating licenses of XLM, Longtop Online, Hooyoo or Xiamen Reseller, requiring us to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations, and requiring us to discontinue all or any portion of such companies’ operations. Our contractual arrangements with Longtop Online and its subsidiaries may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and may result in a finding that we owe additional taxes or are ineligible for tax exemption, or both, which could increase our taxes owed and thereby reduce our net income. Under the applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties, such as XLM and Longtop Online, may be subject to audits or challenges by the PRC tax authorities. We are not able to determine whether any of these transactions will be regarded by the PRC tax authorities as arm’s length transactions because, to our knowledge, the PRC tax authorities have not issued a ruling or interpretation in respect of transaction structures such as ours. The relevant tax authorities may determine that our contractual relationship with Longtop Online and its shareholders was not entered into on an arm’s length basis or that our transactions with Longtop Online have resulted in an impermissible reduction in taxes under PRC law, in which case the PRC tax authorities may adjust the profits and losses of Longtop Online more taxes thereon. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment surcharges and other penalties on Longtop Online for underpaid taxes. Our net income may be adversely affected if Longtop Online’s tax liabilities increase or if it is found to be subject to late payment surcharges or other penalties. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may reduce the value of an investment in our ADSs. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the current policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a greater fluctuation range between Renminbi and the U.S. dollar. From January 1, 2005 to March 31, 2009, the Renminbi cumulatively appreciated approximately 21.1% over the U.S. dollar. Although the rate of the appreciation slowed in the second half of 2008 and the appreciation ceased during the first quarter of 2009, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible and more market-oriented currency policy that allows a greater fluctuation in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, we expect that there will be increasing fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate against the U.S. dollar in the near future. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollar terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars that we received from our initial public offering into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of paying dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. 19 Table of Contents Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with an appropriate local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising fund from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. To further clarify the implementation of Circular 75, the SAFE issued Circular 124 and Circular 106 on November 24, 2005 and May 29, 2007, respectively. Under Circular 106, PRC subsidiaries of an offshore special purpose company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing in a timely manner of SAFE registrations by the offshore holding company’s shareholders who are PRC residents. If these shareholders fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries are required to report to the local SAFE authorities. If the PRC subsidiaries of the offshore parent company do not report to the local SAFE authorities, they may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company and the offshore parent company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the above SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. Some of our PRC resident beneficial owners may have not registered with the local SAFE branch as required under SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of these PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the applicable SAFE registration requirements may subject these beneficial owners or us to fines, legal sanctions and restrictions described above. On March 28, 2007, SAFE released detailed registration procedures for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans to be established by overseas listed companies and for individual plan participants. Any failure to comply with the relevant registration procedures may affect the effectiveness of our employee stock ownership plans or share option plans and subject the plan participants, the companies offering the plans or the relevant intermediaries, as the case may be, to penalties under PRC foreign exchange regime. These penalties may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends. In addition, the NDRC promulgated a rule in October 2004, or the NDRC Rule, which requires NDRC approvals for overseas investment projects made by PRC entities. The NDRC Rule also provides that approval procedures for overseas investment projects of PRC individuals must be implemented with reference to this rule. However, there exist extensive uncertainties as to interpretation of the NDRC Rule with respect to its application to a PRC individual’s overseas investment and, in practice, we are not aware of any precedents that a PRC individual’s overseas investment has been approved by the NDRC or challenged by the NDRC based on the absence of NDRC approval. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC individuals did not apply for NDRC approval for investment in us. We cannot predict how and to what extent this will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, the failure of our shareholders who are PRC individuals to comply with the NDRC Rule may subject these persons or our PRC subsidiary to certain liabilities under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business. We may face risks due to business interruptions resulting from outbreak of health epidemics. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China. Any occurrence of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, SARS or any other health epidemic or outbreak in Xiamen or Beijing, where our PRC operations head offices are located and most of our employees are based, or elsewhere in China, may cause interruptions to our business operations due to illness and loss of our management and key employees, as well as temporary closure of our offices and other related businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, operating results or financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Our planned relocation of our headquarters may result in temporary disruptions of our operations or a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We are in the process of renovating a new office building in Xiamen to house our Xiamen operations and accommodate our growing number of employees and expanding operations. The relocation is planned for the second half of the 2009 calendar year. The relocation may result in temporary disruptions of our operations and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, since the title registration relating to the new office building has not yet been completed, our ownership of this building and use rights over its underlying land may be challenged by third parties. We may also engage in future relocations of our employees or operations from time to time. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar; • intellectual property litigation; • sales of additional ADSs; and • general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. All of the approximately 12 million ADSs that were sold in our initial public offering, and any ADSs issued with respect to approximately 13 million ordinary shares issued or issuable under our share incentive plan are tradable without additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, and any of the approximately 14.6 million ADSs that are sold by selling shareholders pursuant to the prospectus forming a part of a shelf registration statement on Form F-3 that we filed on May 15, 2009 and became effective on June 22, 2009 will be tradable without additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933. Sales of additional ADSs into the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Such sales also could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Holders of ADSs may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and the deposit agreement for the ADSs, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. Holders of ADSs may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that such holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. The deposit agreement provides that if the depositary does not timely receive valid voting instructions from the ADS holders, then the depositary will, with certain limited exceptions, give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote such shares. 21 Table of Contents We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. We do not believe that we were a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended March 31, 2009, and we do not expect to be considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ending March 31, 2010. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several respects and, in addition, whether we are a PFIC is determined annually (after the close of each taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year ending March 31, 2010 or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on the average of the quarterly values of the assets during the taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The market value of our assets may be determined in large part by the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend cash that we raised in our initial public offering. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. person held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. person. See “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Holders of ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and holders of ADSs will not receive such distribution. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 22 Table of Contents A small group of shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. A small number of shareholders, including Hiu Kung Ka, our co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, Wai Chau Lin, our co-founder and chief executive officer, Cathay IT Financial Services Ltd., Tiger Global Private Investment Partners III, L.P. and Tiger Global Private Investment Partners IV, L.P., as at June 19, 2009 beneficially owned approximately 59.2% of our outstanding share capital. As a result, these shareholders have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. Alternatively, our controlling shareholders may cause a merger, consolidation or change of control transaction even if it is opposed by our other shareholders. We currently do not intend to follow the New York Stock Exchange requirements that a majority of our directors consist of independent directors or that we implement a nominating committee. This may afford less protection to our holders of ordinary shares and ADSs. Section 303A of the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange requires listed companies to have, among others, a majority of its board members be independent and a nominating committee. As a foreign private issuer, however, we are permitted to, and we will, follow home country practice in lieu of the above requirement. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the Cayman Islands, does not require a majority of our board to consist of independent directors or the implementation of a nominating committee. Since a majority of our board of directors will not consist of independent directors and we will not have a separate nominating committee to identify individuals qualified to become board or committee members or set corporate governance guidelines as long as we rely on the foreign private issuer exemption, there will be fewer board members exercising independent judgment and the level of board oversight on the management of our company may decrease as result. The board members who are not independent may cause a merger, consolidation or change of control transactions without the consent of the independent directors, which may lead to a conflict of interest with the interest of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions, and we may adopt additional anti- takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association create a board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered terms, which means that shareholders can only elect, or remove, a limited number of directors in any given year. Our articles of association also contain provisions that authorize our board of directors, without further action by our shareholders, to issue shares pursuant to a shareholder rights agreement or otherwise in one or more series and to designate the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of shares. Under these anti-takeover provisions, shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. Furthermore, we may in the future amend our articles of association to adopt additional provisions that limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These anti-takeover provisions may have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. If our board of directors decides to issue shares in reliance of the provisions described above, or adopt additional anti-takeover provisions, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Our shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests, and their ability to protect their rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China. The majority of our officers and directors reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for our shareholders to bring actions against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that shareholders believe that their rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if shareholders are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may make it difficult or impossible for such shareholders to enforce judgments against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 23 Table of Contents Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (as amended) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not necessarily binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law may not be as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than they would as shareholders of a public company of the United States. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Sarbanes-Oxley and SEC rules promulgated under Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as rules of the New York Stock Exchange, have detailed requirements concerning corporate governance practices of public companies, including Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, which relates to internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements increase our accounting, legal and financial compliance costs and make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. 