Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. Unless the context requires otherwise, we are referring to Opower, Inc. when we use the terms “Opower,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us.” ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business Overview Opower is a leading provider of cloud-based software to the utility industry. Utilities use our platform to deliver key customer-facing applications that reduce energy demand and improve satisfaction. Our software analyzes energy data and presents personalized insights that motivate reductions in energy consumption, lower cost-to-serve, and improve customer sentiment. The utility industry is large, and cloud-based software is not deeply penetrated. We believe that we are uniquely positioned to use state of the art software to transform the way the utility industry engages its customers. Utilities face two critical challenges that our software is built to address. First, utilities are under pressure to build fewer power plants, accommodate cleaner sources of fuel and keep rates low. To accomplish these goals, utilities implement energy efficiency and demand response programs, which reduce overall and peak usage. Regulatory mechanisms support these programs by compensating utilities for reducing usage. Second, utilities need to strengthen their customer relationships. In regulated markets, which include much of the United States, regulators reward utilities for improving customer satisfaction and reducing cost-to-serve. Our software is replacing low-tech and hardware-intensive products. Alternative efficiency programs today primarily consist of subsidies for energy efficient products, such as air conditioners and light bulbs. Utilities often limit marketing efforts to traditional mass-market approaches, such as bus stop advertisements and television commercials. We are able to replace these programs because our software offers measurable results and the opportunity to offer personalized insights to varied customer segments. We can embed our solutions within utilities’ websites, mobile applications and customer service interfaces, and deliver individualized emails, text messages, automated phone calls and mail. In the design of these consumer touch points, we apply behavioral science insights to actionable patterns identified by our proprietary data analytics engine, which analyzes hundreds of billions of energy usage data points. We generate revenue from utilities by selling primarily multi-year subscriptions to our software. As of December 31, 2014, we served 98 utility customers in nine countries. We have experienced significant growth since our inception. Through our utility customers, we have increased the households we serve from 1.4 million in 2010 to 61.9 million in 2014. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, our revenue was $51.8 million, $88.7 million and $128.4 million, respectively, representing year-over-year revenue growth of 71% and 45%, respectively. We generated more than 92% of our revenue from annual recurring subscription fees in 2014. Because we believe our opportunity is large, we continue to invest significantly in our growth. As a result, we have generated net losses of $12.3 million, $14.2 million and $41.8 million in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Utility Industry Background Utilities operate in a highly regulated environment. Regulators review and approve capital expenditures and, in most markets, set the rates utilities charge their customers. In particular, regulators increasingly incentivize utilities to pursue energy efficiency and demand response, and place higher priority on better customer experience. Key trends affecting utilities include: Focus on Reducing Cost-to-Serve and Increasing Customer Satisfaction. The widespread adoption of smartphones, mobile apps and social networking tools has changed the way consumers interact with their service providers. Yet direct communication between utilities and their customers has largely been limited to a once-a-month bill and negative events, such as power outages. This history has led to low customer satisfaction. The change in consumer expectations has led utilities to seek software that can lower cost-to-serve and improve the satisfaction that results from each customer touchpoint. Regulators Prioritizing Energy Efficiency Over New Capacity. Long-term energy efficiency resource standards have been enacted by 24 U.S. states, and these states account for over 55% of total U.S. electricity consumption. In order to incentivize efficiency, many states have “decoupled” their utilities, which means the utility’s revenue is no longer driven by energy sales. In non-decoupled states, regulators may incentivize efficiency by allowing the utility to recover the cost of the programs, earn their lost margin on energy sales, and in some cases, earn more on efficiency than they would on energy sales. For example, in California, Massachusetts, and Colorado, not only are utilities spending billions of dollars on energy efficiency, they are also earning margins on energy efficiency that are comparable to their margin on delivered electricity. We believe this trend is likely to continue as long as efficiency remains less expensive than generation. 1 Table of Contents Increasing Focus on Reducing Peak Demand. Reducing peak demand is valuable for utilities because meeting peak demand often requires utilities to obtain back-up power from “peaker” plants, which is far more expensive than obtaining power from conventional power plants and lowers profitability. Reducing peak demand has become even more valuable as peak supply prices have increased and as changing regulations have made it easier to sell energy reductions on par with supply. These same dynamics are at play in fast growing regions like Asia and South America, where demand response is needed to prevent shortages and blackouts. Increasing Competition. Over the past two decades, many countries and some U.S. states have separated the retail sale of energy from the generation, distribution and transmission of power, creating competition for customers among energy retailers. In both competitive and noncompetitive, or regulated, energy markets, rooftop solar contractors and other sources of distributed generation are entering the market with products and services that threaten to disintermediate the utility. Utilities increasingly face the risk of disintermediation due to the rise of distributed generation such as solar power. All of these challenges mean that utilities must build deeper relationships with their customers. Key Benefits to Utilities The key benefits utilities derive from our solutions include: Improved Customer Satisfaction. Utilities have implemented our user-friendly solutions to increase customer satisfaction. Our platform delivers greater understanding of and control over energy consumption, which improves customer experience. We have surveyed over 50,000 energy consumers who receive our solutions. These consumers consistently report greater trust in their utility as a source of information, and they believe that the utility wants to help them save energy and money. Reduced Cost-to-Serve. With our digital solutions, utilities can communicate with their customers through web and mobile applications, making interactions more cost effective and efficient. Customer service software has been reducing the cost of service for a wide set of industries, but the utility industry has lagged behind. Our clients have reported that our services reduce their customer service costs. Low Cost, Large Scale Energy Efficiency. We cost-effectively drive energy-efficiency results across millions of homes. As a result, for some utilities, our efficiency solution has become their single biggest source of residential energy savings. Low Cost, Large Scale Residential Demand Response. Our software enables utilities to scale residential peak demand reductions by rapidly communicating with energy consumers. We do this by sending millions of customized text messages, emails and automated calls. Our results indicate that we may be able to reduce peak consumption by approximately 5%. Better Customer Engagement Technology. Our platform gives utilities the ability to deploy state-of-the-art technology for their customer communications, allowing them to reach and engage their customers across multiple channels with minimal effort. Much as next generation customer relationship management (“CRM”) software and digital marketing software have delivered significant value to enterprises globally, our solutions help utilities strengthen their relationships with their customers. Our Differentiated Approach The key components of our differentiated approach are: Highly Scalable Data Analytics Engine. We have built what we believe to be the most sophisticated data engine serving utilities. As of December 31, 2014, we have collected energy data from 82 million households and businesses aggregated from our utility customers. Our data analytics engine can process and analyze our vast data set and provide personalized insights to the households and businesses that our utility customers serve. For example, our data analytics engine allows us to predict customer bills and separate heating and cooling consumption from base load. Cloud-Based Architecture. Our solutions are built on a cloud-based architecture and delivered through web and mobile applications, text message, email, phone and mail. We maintain a single version of our code base that we deploy to all of our customers, allowing them to receive new features and updates. In an industry that is accustomed to long-term investments, the fact that our software is regularly updated at no added cost is a significant benefit. Intuitive User Experience Informed by Behavioral Science. An intuitive user experience and behavioral science are at the core of all of our solutions. We seek to change the habits of consumers by presenting realistic goals, encouragement and rewards. We use more than 40 behavioral science techniques such as loss language, normative comparisons and reciprocity to encourage utility customers to optimize their energy consumption. Track Record of Measurable Results. We design our products to deliver measurable outcomes, which are necessary for utilities to meet their energy efficiency and demand response targets. We have 251 client years of results, and we believe this track record gives us a significant advantage over our competitors. Our approach to saving has been approved by regulators in 32 states, and that track record has strengthened our brand. 2 Table of Contents Our Growth Strategy The key elements of our growth strategy include: Expand With Existing Customers. We see a significant opportunity to grow our revenue simply by expanding our presence within our existing customer base. Currently, our energy efficiency reports are deployed to 11% of households that our utility customers serve. Most of our utility customers initially purchase only one of our four solutions and deploy that initial solution to only a portion of their customers. Because all of our products help utilities improve their engagement with energy consumers, we believe that utilities will derive even greater benefits as they deploy additional solutions. We have a dedicated sales and customer service team to support these expansion opportunities within our customer base, and we plan to expand our domestic direct sales organization. Develop New Offerings on Our Industry Data Platform. Since we are a trusted partner, our customers often ask us to develop new offerings to meet their growing needs. These requests are increasingly central to our plans for growth. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments to augment our platform to capture adjacent opportunities. Focus on Gas and Electric Consumer Outcomes. From the outset, we have designed products that can deliver measurable changes in consumer behavior, which has been core to our success. We have focused, and will continue to focus, our research and development efforts to continue to improve outcomes for gas and electric consumers. Our Integrated Solutions We enable utilities to meet energy efficiency and demand response targets, and improve customer engagement. Our solutions consist of: Opower Energy Efficiency Our energy efficiency solutions motivate customers to use less energy and participate in other energy efficiency programs. We send messages under the utility’s brand to households and businesses via email and mail. We also make web applications available to both consumers and customer service representatives. These tools take advantage of multiple data sources, which may include historical energy usage, billing data, past customer activity data, parcel data, demographic data, weather data and geo-location data. We deploy our energy efficiency solution in both legacy metering and smart meter environments. The key outbound components of our energy efficiency solution are: • Energy Reports. Our Home Energy Reports are sent by mail and email, typically under the utility’s brand. The reports use insights informed by behavioral science and personalized by our data analytics platform to provide customers with feedback on their energy usage. Key features include a comparison of customer’s usage to that of similar homes nearby, and targeted recommendations for how to decrease consumption. • Smart Meter-Enabled Alerts and Emails. Smart meter data allows us to provide more frequent outreach and alerts based on customer usage patterns. We send our weekly smart meter email reports to energy consumers every week to give them a forecast of their coming bill, see their energy usage by day and receive helpful insights on how to adjust their energy usage. Our High Bill Alerts inform residential consumers in advance when they are on track for a high bill. The alerts are sent via email or text. We believe that our results, and our rigorous measurement of them, have been a key differentiator. Beginning with our first deployment, we have created separate test and control groups so that we could accurately determine the impact of the information we provide. We generate energy savings of 1.5% to 2.5% per end user on average across our programs. While small on a per customer basis, they result in massive savings for our utility customers when aggregated across their customer base. Opower Demand Response Our demand response solution enables utilities that have installed smart meters to broadly engage their residential customer base in demand response programs. Our demand response functionality includes: Peak Day Alerts. Our peak day alerts notify customers of “peak days” when electricity costs are the highest and encourage them to save energy. These alerts can be delivered via text message, automated call and email. Peak Day Feedback Reports. We send our peak day feedback reports to energy consumers following demand response events and provide detailed information about how a customer performed on a peak usage day. Reports include how much energy a customer saved, how much money the customer has earned and tips for how to save further in the future. 3 Table of Contents Although we believe our demand response solution offers significant growth potential, it is still in a nascent stage with little impact on our revenue to date. Opower Digital Engagement Our digital engagement solutions consist of: Opower Web. Utilities embed our white-label web application into their customer-facing web site, enabling them to offer consumers both an intuitive user experience and better insight into energy consumption. Consumers can create energy savings plans, conduct virtual energy audits of their homes, view historical costs and compare rate plans. In addition, Opower Web provides context by explaining how customers’ energy usage compares to their neighbors’ and offering targeted recommendations for reducing costs. Utilities generally deploy our web applications to their entire residential service base, and often integrate our application with single sign-on authentication. While our web application does not require smart meters, access to more data allows us to offer consumers greater insight. For example, utilities with smart meters can benefit from our patented usage disaggregation algorithm that separates heating, cooling and baseline energy consumption from a consumer’s energy usage. Utilities and their customers can therefore effectively conduct a remote audit of their home. CSR Application. Our Customer Service Representatives (“CSR”) solution provides utility customer service representatives with relevant information about customers when they call their utility. The CSR solution allows customer service representatives to create online accounts, enroll customers to receive energy alerts through the customer’s preferred communication medium, update customer profiles, and provide energy management advice. Rates Engine. Our rates engine helps utilities analyze cost data for energy consumers and adopt time-of-use rates. It provides consumers with an hourly view of their energy costs, allows them to compare costs to previous months, performs bill forecasts at any point during the billing cycle, and simulates the cost impact of a customer changing rate plans or usage behavior. Opower Web and the Opower CSR application are also key parts of our energy efficiency and demand response solutions. Opower Customer Care We recently announced a customer care solution, which is focused on reducing cost-to-serve and increasing customer satisfaction when utility customers receive a high bill. Customer satisfaction and cost-to-serve are critical to both the top and bottom lines for utilities. Globally, utilities spend approximately $30 billion a year on customer operations, with the largest expenditures in billing and call center operations. Despite this massive investment, research shows that customer interactions have room for improvement. In particular, billing is a pain point for both customers and utilities. Opower’s first customer care offering, Billing Suite, focuses on reducing high bill call volume and call center handle time, while increasing customer satisfaction. The key components of our Customer Care solution are: • High Bill Alerts that inform customers of when they are trending towards a high bill and how they can adjust their energy use before the end of the billing period. We can deliver to customers with and without smart meters and enable utilities to proactively resolve customer questions. • eBill Notifications that offer an enhanced experience for customers enrolled in utility e-billing programs by providing helpful context about the main drivers of their energy use. The notifications also give utilities an opportunity to market relevant programs and services. • Billing Advisor that arms utility call center representatives with personalized insights to help them have more productive and satisfying calls with customers, helping increase customer satisfaction and lower average call times. Our Technology From our inception, we set out to build a proprietary, cloud-based software platform for utilities. We believe our platform is more advanced and operates at greater scale than that of any of our competitors. We designed it to manage the large amount of data that utilities store in their internal systems as well as the accelerating volume of data available from today’s smart meters and smart grid infrastructure. Our platform is capable of analyzing large volumes of data from disparate sources with rapid throughput and high availability in order to provide a variety of personalized, data-rich communications. 4 Table of Contents Opower Data Integration System. Our data integration platform allows us to capture data attributes from both utilities and third parties and import both structured and unstructured data formats. We use Hadoop-distributed database technology to store a wide range of data including smart meter, program participation, demographic, weather, housing and geo-location data. This data integration system is capable of large-scale, low-latency imports in near-real time, which enables us to perform time-sensitive operations for our customers, like demand response. Big Data Analytics Engine. Our data platform leverages leading technologies such as Hadoop, Hive and HBase to analyze a wide variety of energy and third-party data. We have built our own proprietary batch processing system on top of our Hadoop cluster, which allows us to chain jobs, and start, stop and pause them. These key capabilities are critical for our enterprise applications and are not available today in popular NoSQL systems like Hadoop. We made these investments to surface insights for energy consumers. Our system can predict bills, detect energy usage anomalies and conduct a virtual audit of millions of homes by using a patent-pending method of multivariate regression analysis. In addition, the system can utilize hundreds of different data attributes to identify similar homes and supply customers with accurate and relevant neighbor comparisons. Content Personalization Engine. We are building our content engine to sit on top of our big data analytic platform, allowing us to target messages to consumers. Our engine consists of three key components: our event scheduling system, our high-level mark-up language for content design and our real-time segmentation tool. Our event scheduling system sends messages at the most effective times and provides event and schedule-triggered messaging. Our high-level markup language allows us to customize outbound communications with personalized data in very little time. In addition, our real-time segmentation tool automates the creation of customer segments that incorporate our insights into consumer behavior while allowing utilities to gain visibility, choice and speed in creating distinct customer experiences. Outbound Pipeline. Our platform is capable of delivering millions of outbound messages in short time frames in order to meet the time-sensitive objectives of utilities. Our system synchronizes delivery of content across all channels—email, postal mail, text message and interactive voice response and generates graphically rich, channel-specific messages using lightweight markup language specific to each customer. The system provides monitoring to ensure that issues can be logged and addressed in real time. Our Customers We market and sell our products and solutions both to regulated and unregulated utilities. As of December 31, 2014, we had 98 utilities in nine countries using one or more of our products. We count as customers distinct buying entities, which in a few cases include multiple national or regional subsidiaries of large global utilities, as well as utilities for which we provide services through subcontracting arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our ten largest customers by revenue represented 63% of our total revenue, with two clients, Exelon and National Grid, each representing at least 10% of our total revenue at 12% and 10%, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2013 our ten largest customers by revenue represented 62% of our total revenue, with three clients, National Grid, PG&E and Exelon each representing more than 10% of our total revenue at 14%, 13% and 11%, respectively. Our Culture and Employees We believe that having a strong company culture and set of values is critical to our success. We have assembled an extremely talented group of employees, and we pride ourselves on recruiting elite, mission-driven talent for every part of our organization. We believe that our unique mission is a differentiator and helps us recruit world-class talent. As of December 31, 2014, we had 577 employees, including 176 in sales, regulatory and marketing, 221 in research and development, and 180 in services, operations and general and administrative capacity. As of December 31, 2014, we had 535 employees in the United States and 42 employees internationally. Sales, Regulatory and Marketing As of December 31, 2014, our sales, regulatory and marketing teams were comprised of 176 employees. We expect these teams to grow substantially in pursuit of the large and global market for our solutions. Among contracts signed in 2014, the average annual contract value was approximately $1.1 million with a weighted-average contract term of 26 months. Typical sales cycles range from 4 to 20 months. Due to upselling and expansions within our customer base, some customers may have more than one contract concurrently in effect. Our sales and regulatory teams are structured regionally, while our marketing team is organized by solution. Together, these commercial teams pursue our growth strategy of addressing new markets, securing new customers, expanding existing customers and rolling out new products and services. We staff these teams to work closely together and size them according to the opportunity we see for each solution in each region on a bottom-up basis. Research and Development As of December 31, 2014, our research and development teams were comprised of 221 employees. We expect these teams to grow substantially in support of our research and development roadmap. Our research and development expenses totaled $18.0 million, $29.5 million and $46.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. We plan to continue to invest significant resources in developing new products and enhancing our existing software platform. 5 Table of Contents Customer Service We provide support services for our software, including: • Analytics and Consumer Marketing Services. We assist customers in understanding program results by creating custom segmentations and propensity modeling, performing consumer satisfaction analysis and creating consumer marketing tailored to the promotional goals of each utility. • Enablement and Extensibility Services. We provide enablement services such as data acquisition and integration, single-sign-on integration, data migration work and services around enabling utilities to use Opower’s application programming interfaces (APIs) in different elements of their technology programs. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademarks, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents, as well as contractual provisions and restrictions on access to our proprietary technology. We registered “Opower” as a trademark in the United States, Australia, Canada, the European Community, Hong Kong, China, Japan and New Zealand. We also have filed other trademark applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions, and will pursue additional trademark registrations to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost effective. As of December 31, 2014, we had one issued patent and 30 patent applications pending in the United States, which seek to cover proprietary techniques relevant to our products. We intend to pursue additional patent protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost effective. We are the registered holder of a variety of domestic and international domain names that include “Opower” and similar variations. In addition to the protection provided by our intellectual property rights, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors and business partners. Our employees and contractors are also subject to invention assignment agreements. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property through provisions in both the general and product-specific terms of use on our website. Available Information We were incorporated in Delaware in 2007. Our principal executive offices are located at 1515 North Courthouse Road, 8th Floor, Arlington, Virginia 22201, and our telephone number is (703) 778-4544. We are subject to the information and periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and, in accordance with such requirements, file periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. These periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information are available for inspection and copying at the regional offices, public reference facilities, and web site of the SEC referred to above. We also maintain a website at http://www.opower.com. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act with the SEC free of charge at our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. A copy of any materials filed by us with the SEC may be inspected without charge at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, and copies of all such materials may be obtained from the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, upon payment of the prescribed fee. Information on the operation of the public reference facilities may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is http://www.sec.gov. The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 6 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant Our executive officers and their ages and positions as of December 31, 2014 are set forth below: Name Age Position(s) Executive Officers: Daniel Yates 37 Founder, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director Alex Laskey 38 Founder, President and Director Thomas G. Kramer 44 Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Kirsch 40 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales Rick McPhee 42 Senior Vice President, Engineering Daniel Yates co-founded Opower and has served as our Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2007. Mr. Yates was appointed Chairman of our Board of Directors in February 2014. Prior to founding Opower, Mr. Yates was the founder and chief executive officer at Edusoft, an educational software company that was acquired by Houghton Mifflin Company. Mr. Yates holds a Bachelor of Arts in computer science from Harvard University. We believe that Mr. Yates is qualified to serve as a member of our board of directors because of his experience and perspective as our Chief Executive Officer and founder. Alex Laskey co-founded Opower and has served as our President and as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2007. Mr. Laskey currently serves as a Commissioner for the Alliance to Save Energy’s Commission on National Energy Efficiency Policy and as a member of the board of directors of the Conservation Lands Foundation. Mr. Laskey holds a Bachelor of Arts in history of science from Harvard University. We believe that Mr. Laskey is qualified to serve as a member of our board of directors because of his experience and perspective as our President and founder. Thomas G. Kramer has served as our Chief Financial Officer since November 2011. From 2000 to 2011, Mr. Kramer served as Chief Financial Officer of Cvent, Inc., a cloud-based enterprise software company in the event-management space. Prior to that, Mr. Kramer served as a consultant at the Boston Consulting Group. Mr. Kramer holds a Masters in Business Administration from Harvard Business School and a Masters of Science in economics from the Norwegian School of Economics. Jeremy Kirsch has served as our Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales since August 2014. In this role, he has responsibility for Opower’s sales, field enablement, and sales operations. Previously, he was our Senior Vice President, Client Solutions, responsible for sales, sales support, regulatory, and business development, from July 2008 to August 2014. From 2000 to 2008, Mr. Kirsch held leadership positions in sales, business development and marketing for several technology companies, including L-1 Identity Solutions, Inc., an identity solutions company acquired by Safran S.A., Viisage Technology, Inc. an identity solutions company, and Art Technology Group, an eCommerce software company acquired by Oracle. Prior to that, Mr. Kirsch was a special operations officer with the United States Navy, service that entailed diving, salvage, and search and rescue specialties. Mr. Kirsch holds a Masters in Business Administration from the MIT Sloan School of Management and a Bachelor of Arts in economics from Stanford University. Rick McPhee has served as our Senior Vice President, Engineering since March 2012. From 2008 to 2012, Dr. McPhee served as Vice President, Engineering, at Fortify Software, a Hewlett-Packard Company. From 2005 to 2008, Dr. McPhee served as Vice President, Engineering, at Vormetric, a data security company. Dr. McPhee holds a PhD in computer science from the University of Oxford and a Bachelor of Science in computer science from University of Glasgow. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report, and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and anticipate continued losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have incurred significant losses to date, with an accumulated deficit of $125.0 million as of December 31, 2014. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, we incurred net losses of $12.3 million, $14.2 million and $41.8 million, respectively. We expect these losses to continue. We also anticipate negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, as we expect to incur significant operating expenses in connection with the continued development and expansion of our business. Many of these expenses relate to prospective customers that may never contract with us, as well as products that may not be introduced, that we may choose to discontinue, that may fail to achieve desired results or that may not generate revenue until later periods, if at all. We may not achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 7 Table of Contents Sales cycles and implementation times can be lengthy and unpredictable and require significant employee time and financial resources. Sales cycles for our products tend to be long and unpredictable. Even after we have convinced prospective customers of the need for, and value of, our products and solutions, our customers are large organizations that frequently have extensive budgeting, procurement, competitive bidding, technical and performance reviews and regulatory approval processes that can slow down the sales process by months or even years. Utilities may choose, and many historically have chosen, to follow industry trends rather than be early adopters of new products or solutions, which can extend the lead time for or prevent acceptance of more recently introduced products or solutions such as ours. In many instances, a utility may require one or more pilot programs to test our products and solutions before committing to a larger deployment. These pilot programs may be quite lengthy and provide no assurance that they will lead to a larger deployment or future sales. The implementation and deployment of our solutions can be unpredictable due to contract negotiations and challenges with implementation, or critical dependencies, such as the installation of other products, including smart meters. Furthermore, the implementation and deployment of new products and solutions may require troubleshooting, which requires additional time and resources from us and our customers. These delays may lengthen our sales cycles. Our typical sales cycle across contracts is 4 to 20 months and can extend even longer in some cases. This extended sales, implementation and deployment process requires our senior management and our sales and marketing and customer services personnel to dedicate significant time to sales, and to use significant financial resources without any assurance of success or recovery of our related expenses. The lengthy sales cycle also makes it difficult to forecast new customer implementations and deployments, as well as the volume and timing of future agreements, which, in turn, makes forecasting our future results of operations challenging. In the event that we publicly disclose any forecasts of our future results of operations or other forward-looking metrics, and those forecasts ultimately turn out to be inaccurate, the value of our common stock could significantly decline. We provide services to utilities that operate in a highly regulated business environment, and regulatory requirements or need for regulatory approval could delay or reduce demand for our products, impose costs on us or make our products less attractive to our customers. Our customers, products and solutions are subject to many federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. In many cases, our customers are subject to direct oversight from Public Utility Commissions, Public Service Commissions, Independent System Operators, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or other regulatory entities primarily focused on the energy utility sector. Applicable laws and regulations govern, among other things, utility demand for energy efficiency and demand response solutions, the data that we are able to handle and collect, utility structuring and incentives, the utility’s ability to spend money on our products and solutions and the methods and manners that we can use to contact utility customers. Depending on the solutions sought, prospective customers may be required to obtain approval from any of these organizations prior to implementing our solutions, which could delay our ability to collect cash and recognize revenue. We are dependent in part on regulations on the utility industry, and the changing regulatory landscape could alter our customers’ buying patterns. The utility industry has been subject to increasing and changing regulations in recent years. We derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of products and solutions directly and indirectly to utilities, and this complex and difficult landscape poses a risk to us. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, variability in our results of operations on an annual and a quarterly basis as a result of these factors. Going forward, these factors could harm our financial condition and cash flows. Changes in the regulatory conditions could reduce a customer’s interest in or ability to implement our products and solutions. Examples of market dynamics driven by regulation include: • energy efficiency goals; • interpretations of the energy savings credit attributed to our products; • regulated compensation associated with energy efficiency; • demand response goals; • rules concerning the peak reductions attributed to our products; • regulated compensation associated with demand response; 8 Table of Contents • smart metering or advanced meter infrastructure deployments; and • data protection and information security. Many regulatory jurisdictions have implemented rules that provide financial incentives for the implementation of energy efficiency and demand response technologies, either by providing rebates or through the restructuring of utility rates. In the past, we have seen demand for our solutions altered by changes in regulation. We have also had to limit or alter our offerings to comply with regulatory requirements, and these changes have affected our revenue. In addition, deregulation may change the incentives for our customers or prospective customers to use our solutions. If changes in regulation reduce or negatively alter the demand for our solutions, our business and results of operations could be harmed. In order to counteract this risk, we have invested significant time and effort in understanding and attempting to impact government decisions that we believe will affect our market. These efforts, however, have not always been successful and may not succeed in the future. If we fail to respond to evolving technological changes, our products and solutions could become obsolete or less competitive. Our industry is highly competitive and characterized by new and rapidly evolving technologies, techniques, standards, regulations, customer requirements and frequent product introductions. Accordingly, our results of operations depend upon, among other things, our ability to develop and introduce new products and solutions, as well as our ability to improve existing products. The process of developing new technologies and products is complex. If we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing products or if we are unable to develop new products that keep pace with technological developments or industry standards, our business could be harmed. We continue to invest in new product offerings and the success of those offerings is uncertain. A few examples of such product development challenges are: • Over the last three years, we have invested significant resources in developing applications that work with thermostats sold by third parties. Sales of this offering did not grow as quickly as we had anticipated. We have yet to see a significant return from that investment, as our development and sales growth has been slowed by market challenges. As a result, we are suspending further development of our thermostat offering. These challenges may continue, and our investment in this area may not yield returns. • We have invested significant resources in an offering tailored specially for small and medium-sized businesses. The market for this offering is unproven, and our ability to successfully deliver the results our customers seek is uncertain. • We have invested considerable resources in developing a demand response offering. While the early results have been promising, it is possible that the market could be smaller than we have expected or that our product will not function as intended. • We have invested in adapting our products for international markets, where energy is often sold competitively. Customer and utility expectations vary widely in these markets and it is possible that our products may be less successful in international and competitive markets. For example, in 2014 we experienced two non-renewals with international customers, saw slower sales growth in Europe and found that use of our energy efficiency product to drive utility customer retention was less effective in international markets than we hoped. We may experience additional difficulty adapting our products and solutions for international markets. • We also have other products in development; it is possible that none of those products will prove to be successful. All of our research and development efforts are dependent upon our ability to deliver products and functionality in a timely and efficient manner. In the past, we have experienced delays delivering products, and while we have taken steps to improve the predictability of our research and development efforts, those efforts may not be successful. If we continue to experience delays in our ability to deliver new products and functionality, our business and growth rates would suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to deliver measurable outcomes, and our business may be harmed if our products became less effective or our results are questioned. Our products deliver valuable measurable outcomes for our customers and receive favorable treatment from their regulators, both of which are important to our customers. Our ability to deliver expected results is dependent on numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the effectiveness of our approach and products, the cost of alternate sources of energy savings, the availability of data and our ability to effectively reach energy consumers. We may not be able to continue to deliver valuable, measurable outcomes or we may find that our programs yield diminishing returns over time. In addition, it is possible that regulators will change their view of our results in a way that might harm our business overall. For example, if regulators were to treat our energy savings as less significant or less reliable than other efficiency programs, or if regulators were to alter how utilities are compensated for working with us, our business and results of operations may be harmed. If our ability to deliver results were to change, or if regulators were to view our results less favorably, our brand, business and results of operations may be harmed. 9 Table of Contents Because we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the contract, downturns or upturns in new sales will not be immediately reflected in our results of operations and may be difficult to discern. We generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their contracts, which typically range from one to five years. As a result, most of the subscription revenue we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscriptions entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter will likely have only a small impact on our revenue results for that quarter, but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions, and potential changes in our pricing policies or rates of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. We may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenue. In addition, a significant majority of our costs are expensed as incurred. As a result, increased growth in the number of our customers could result in our recognition of more costs than revenue in the earlier periods of the terms of our agreements. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. A limited number of our utility customers are responsible for a significant portion of our revenue and cash flow. A decrease in sales to these utility customers or delays in customer implementation and deployments could harm our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a large and concentrated market. A substantial portion of our revenue, profitability and cash flow depends on a limited number of utility customers, and we cannot easily replace a lost customer. As a result, there may be significant variability in our quarterly results if we were to lose one or more of our large customers. In addition, particularly in the United States, there has been an increase in mergers and acquisitions among energy utilities in recent years. This trend may decrease the size of our potential customer base, or may require us to make pricing concessions to large clients. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our ten largest customers by revenue represented 63% of our total revenue, with two clients, Exelon and National Grid, each representing at least 10% of our total revenue at 12% and 10%, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2013 our ten largest customers by revenue represented 62% of our total revenue, with three clients, National Grid, PG&E and Exelon each representing more than 10% of our total revenue at 14%, 13% and 11%, respectively. Many of our fees are not due until we have actually begun to deliver our solutions and, as a result, are subject to delay. Our customers may generally terminate their respective agreements in each case for cause upon written notice of certain uncured material breaches of contract by us, upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party or under certain other circumstances. We expect that a limited number of utility customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in future periods. Changes in the business requirements, vendor selection or purchasing behavior of our utility customers could significantly decrease our sales. Many of our customer agreements provide our customers with the ability to terminate the agreement for convenience, which may limit our ability to forecast our revenue accurately or could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Many of our customer agreements, including certain of our historically larger customers, are subject to customer termination for any reason, including for the customer’s convenience following a specified notice period. In limited circumstances, we may be required to provide refunds or sales credits in addition to the loss of future revenue from these customers. If customers terminate their agreements with us for convenience, our results of operations may be harmed and our revenue forecasts may be incorrect. We have experienced rapid growth and organizational change in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial performance may suffer. We have substantially expanded our overall business, customer base, employee headcount and operations in recent periods both domestically and internationally. We increased our total number of full-time employees from 162 employees as of December 31, 2010 to 577 employees as of December 31, 2014. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, customer operations, research and development, sales and marketing, administrative, financial and other resources. We anticipate further growth in headcount will be required to address increases in our solution offerings and continued expansion. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our management team to manage this growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to recruit, hire, train, manage and integrate a significant number of qualified managers and employees in specialized roles within our company, including in technology, sales and marketing. If our new employees perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in recruiting, hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or retaining these or our existing employees, our business and results of operations may suffer. In addition, to manage the expected growth of our headcount and operations, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, management and information technology infrastructure. Our anticipated additional headcount and capital investments will increase our costs, which will make it more difficult for us to address any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we are unable to manage our growth successfully, our business and results of operations will be harmed. 10 Table of Contents The market for our products and solutions is still developing. If the market does not develop as quickly or as much as we expect, our business and growth rates could be harmed. The market for our products and solutions is still developing, and it is uncertain whether our products and solutions will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance, both domestically and internationally. For example, the market for our thermostat offering has not developed in a manner we anticipated. Our near-term and long-term success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness and ability of utilities, both domestically and internationally, to pursue energy efficiency, demand response and customer engagement programs. Utilities’ activities are governed by regulatory agencies, including public utility commissions, which may not create a regulatory environment that is conducive to the implementation of energy efficiency or demand response in a particular jurisdiction. Indeed, currently many utilities lack the economic motivation, regulatory requirements or financial incentives to deploy our technology. If utilities do not pursue energy efficiency, demand response or customer engagement or do so in fewer numbers or more slowly than we expect, our business and results of operations would be harmed. In addition, customer and utility expectations vary widely in international markets and it is possible that the market for our products and solutions may not prove as strong in international and competitive markets. We may find less market acceptance of our products and solutions internationally than we expected. Utilities in critical markets may fail to collect data or may be unable to collect current data that we require to provide our products and solutions. Our cloud-based platform is dependent upon receiving specific data inputs from our customers such as current energy usage data. Without those inputs, our platform may be less reliable, less effective or may not work, and we may not be able to provide effective solutions. In markets where energy usage data is infrequently collected or where access to that data is restricted, including in international markets, we may prove unable to provide our products and solutions or we may be forced to alter our products and solutions in a manner that reduces our ability to derive revenue from them. For example, the processes for data collection in Europe are still developing. As a result, data may be more difficult to obtain or more expensive to access. If we are unable to access current data from our customers, our business and results of operations may be harmed. Our quarterly results are inherently unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could harm the trading price of our common stock. Our results of operations, including our revenue, profitability and cash flows, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. While our revenue has increased in recent periods, our revenue may not continue to increase or may decrease on a quarterly or annual basis. Factors that may affect the unpredictability of our quarterly results and cause our stock price to fluctuate include, but are not limited to: • long, and sometimes unpredictable, sales and customer implementation and deployment cycles; • changes in the mix of products and solutions sold; • our dependence on a limited number of customers; • current customers not renewing or cancelling their existing agreements with us; • the timing of deployment of our products and solutions by our customers, which can have a material effect on when we recognize related revenue under our revenue recognition policies; • changing market and competitive conditions; • failures of our solutions that may harm our reputation or result in contractual penalties or terminations; • product or project failures by our customers that result in the cancellation, slowing down or deferring of projects; • changes to our cost structure, including changes to our cost of postage, data acquisition, data storage and management, data security and labor; • delays in adopting our solutions associated with data privacy concerns; • changes in laws or regulations, directly affecting either our operations, those of our customers or utility consumers; • delays in regulatory approvals for our utility customers and utility customer implementations and deployments; • political and consumer sentiment and the related impact on the scope and timing of deployment of our products and solutions; • economic, regulatory and political conditions in the markets where we operate or anticipate operating; • the addition of new employees; and • extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments. 11 Table of Contents As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. It is likely that in some future quarters our results of operations may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock would likely decline. We operate in a competitive industry and our market share and results of operations may be harmed if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively. Competition in our market involves rapidly changing technologies, evolving regulatory requirements and industry expectations, frequent new product introductions and changes in customer requirements. To maintain and improve our competitive position, we must keep pace with the evolving needs of our utility customers and continue to develop and introduce new products, features and solutions in a timely and efficient manner. We compete with software suppliers to utilities. Our key competitors currently include Aclara, C3 Energy, EnerNOC, Schneider Electric, Silver Spring Networks, Simple Energy and Tendril, as well as many other smaller providers. Certain of these companies have, and future competitors may have, substantially greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources than we do. Additionally, we compete with energy efficiency providers that provide utilities with other efficiency programs and demand response companies that offer programs specifically focused on reduction in peak capacity. If these programs become more cost effective, it would harm our business. For example, if the cost of alternative efficiency approaches such as light bulb replacement subsidies or home retrofits decreased, or if utilities could more easily deploy those measures on a large scale, our business could be harmed. We have also seen many companies imitate our products, solutions and tactics, and we expect that trend to continue. As we look to expand into new markets, we expect to face additional competitors that may be more established in specific geographies. We anticipate that in the future, additional competitors will emerge that offer a broad range of competing products and solutions. Our business and financial performance could be harmed by changes in tax laws or regulations. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time. Those enactments could harm our domestic and international business operations, and our business and financial performance. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. These events could require us or our utility customers to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us or our utility customers to pay fines and/or penalties and interest for past amounts deemed to be due. If we raise our prices to offset the costs of these changes, existing and potential future utility customers may elect not to purchase our products and solutions in the future. Additionally, new, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could increase our utility customers’ and our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our products. Further, these events could decrease the capital we have available to operate our business. The occurrence of any or all of these events could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to sales, use and income tax audits by many tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) based companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. Our results of operations may be harmed if we are required to collect sales taxes for our products and solutions in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. Historically, we have not collected sales tax from our customers nor have we remitted such taxes in many states where we sell our products and solutions. Although we believe we are not obligated to collect sales taxes from our customers in those jurisdictions, states or one or more countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us, including for past sales by us or our utilities. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales or other taxes on our products or solutions could discourage customers from purchasing our solutions or otherwise harm our business and results of operations. We rely on our management team and need additional key personnel to grow our business, and the loss of key employees or inability to hire key personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depend on the skills, working relationships and continued services of our management team and other key personnel. The loss of any member of our senior management team, and in particular our Chief Executive Officer, President or other key executives, could harm our business. All of our officers are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. 12 Table of Contents Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may affect our ability to retain our senior management and key personnel. Many of our longest-tenured employees, including members of our senior management and other key personnel with deep institutional knowledge, hold vested stock options and shares of our common stock in significant numbers. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested stock options have significantly depreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are above the market price of our common stock. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to retain the necessary personnel to run and grow our business could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, our future success will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management, product development, operations, sales, engineering and other personnel in the United States and abroad. Competition for these types of personnel is intense and we have experienced periods where we had difficulty hiring for critical roles. In particular, we have struggled at times to attract and hire sales executives and software developers who meet our standards. Even if we are able to hire qualified individuals, we may be unable to retain such individuals. Furthermore, if we hire from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. Postal charges are one of our most significant costs. If postal rates or mailing costs increase, our cost of delivering our solutions could increase. In each country where we deliver mailed paper reports, we are dependent upon the government mail carrier to deliver our products. We have very little ability to control postal expenses and a change in postal expenses could have a significant impact on our business. For example, the United States Postal Service (“USPS”) delivers all of our U.S. mail correspondence, and we are bound by any postage rate increases enacted by the USPS. In the past, we have seen the specific postage rate applied to our products change due to a change in how the USPS interpreted its classification rules. In January 2013, the USPS determined that these reports should be charged first class postage rates rather than standard mail rates, thereby increasing our postage cost significantly. These increased charges continued through June 2013 when we were able to modify our product to comply with classification rules for postage at the standard rate. During the year ended December 31, 2013, our payments to the USPS increased by $2.9 million as a result of these first class postage rates. We have encountered similar concerns from other carriers to a lesser extent as well. Such increased charges harmed our business and our results of operations during this period. If the USPS or other mail carriers change their position as to our mailed reports or we change our product offerings again, our future results of operations could be harmed. If we cannot maintain our environmental focus as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork, passion and focus on execution that we believe contributes to our success. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our focus on the environmental impact of our products and solutions. We believe that focus has driven innovation, increased attention to results and has allowed us to attract and retain highly talented individuals who are motivated by our mission driven culture. As we grow and change, we may find it difficult to maintain this critical aspect of our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could harm our ability to retain and recruit quality personnel, thereby harming our future success. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to predict our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We have a limited operating history in an evolving market that may not develop as expected. This limited operating history makes it difficult to effectively assess or forecast our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in the technology industry, such as the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties are incorrect or change due to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our financial results and results of operations may differ materially from our expectations and our business may suffer. Our marketing efforts depend significantly on our ability to receive positive references from our existing utility customers. We operate in an industry with a limited number of buyers and reputation is particularly important as a result. Our customers often serve as references for each other, and they have been known to discuss the performance of our products and solutions with each other. Consequently, our marketing efforts depend significantly on our ability to call on our current utility customers to provide positive references. Given our limited number of utility customers, the loss or dissatisfaction of any customer could substantially harm our brand and reputation, inhibit the market acceptance of our products and solutions and impair our ability to attract new utility customers and maintain existing utility customers. Any of these consequences could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our business depends substantially on customers renewing, upgrading and expanding their solutions with us. Any decline in our customer renewals, upgrades and expansions may harm our future results of operations. Our ability to grow depends substantially on our ability to expand our business with existing customers. To date, a significant portion of our growth has resulted from our ability to sell new products and solutions and expand existing products and solutions sold to current customers. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer renewals, upgrades and expansions so we may not accurately predict future trends in these areas. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our solutions, the prices of our solutions, the prices of solutions offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels due to the macroeconomic environment or other factors. If our customers believe that our service offerings are not sufficiently scalable, effective or do not provide adequate information security, they will not expand their solutions with us, and our profitability and gross margin may be harmed. In addition, our products and solutions may prove less effective meeting the needs of utilities in competitive and international markets and we may experience greater customer attrition in these markets. For example, in 2014 we experienced two non-renewals with international customers, saw slower sales growth in Europe and found that use of our energy efficiency product to drive utility customer retention was less effective in international markets than we hoped. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our solutions, renew on less favorable terms or do not purchase additional functionality or subscriptions, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline. If the market for our cloud-based delivery model develops more slowly than we expect, our growth may slow or stall, and our results of operations would be harmed. Use of cloud-based or SaaS applications to manage and automate enterprise IT is at an early stage within our industry. We do not know whether the trend of adoption of enterprise SaaS solutions we have experienced in the past will continue in the future. In particular, many utilities have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate legacy software into their businesses over time, and some have been reluctant or unwilling to migrate to SaaS. Furthermore, some utilities have been reluctant or unwilling to use SaaS because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the security of their data and the reliability of the technology delivery model associated with these solutions. In addition, if other SaaS providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery or other problems, the market for SaaS solutions as a whole, including our service, may be negatively impacted. If the adoption of cloud-based or SaaS solutions does not continue, the market for our solutions may stop developing or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our results of operations. From time to time, we have worked and expect to continue to work with third parties to pursue sales opportunities. If we were unable to establish and maintain these relationships, or if our initiatives with these third parties are unsuccessful, our business and future growth may be harmed. For some of our existing and anticipated future products and solutions, we expect to maintain and may seek to establish relationships with third parties in order to take advantage of market opportunities. For example, certain third parties act as energy efficiency program administrators to utilities, system integrators and local partners in international markets, and we will need to work with such third parties to maintain or grow our business in certain territories. Our success in such circumstances may depend both on our ability to maintain a relationship with the third party and the third party’s ability to maintain a relationship with the utility. In addition, these third-party vendors may offer competing products, partner with other providers or otherwise choose not to partner with us. In the event that we are unable to establish or maintain new relationships on favorable terms, or at all, our ability to successfully sell our existing and anticipated future products and solutions could be harmed. Security breaches or data leaks involving our products or solutions, or those offered by others, associated negative publicity, or the public perception of security risks or vulnerability associated with our business, products or solutions or by the deployment of new technologies in general, whether or not valid, could harm our business. The security measures we have adopted may not function as expected or may prove insufficient to detect unauthorized activity and prevent or minimize (i) security breaches, (ii) the unauthorized collection, use and disclosure of personal data or other information, or (iii) loss, theft or corruption of information or personal data by parties entrusted with it. As a result, our products and solutions and the third party products and solutions we utilize may be subject to significant real or perceived security breaches and other unauthorized collection, use or disclosure of personal data. Our platform collects, stores, compiles and analyzes sensitive information related to consumers’ energy usage, including consumers’ personal data. If, in handling this information, we, our partners or our utility customers fail to comply with privacy or security laws, including but not limited to interpretations by Public Utility Commissions and state and municipal regulators, we could face significant legal, financial, and reputational exposure to claims of government agencies, regulatory bodies, utility customers and consumers whose privacy is compromised. Even the perception that we, our partners or our utility customers have improperly handled sensitive, confidential information could have a negative effect on our business. In addition, third parties may attempt to breach our security measures or inappropriately use or access our software or the network hardware through computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and other means. If a breach is successful, sensitive information may be improperly obtained, manipulated or corrupted, and we may face legal and financial exposure. In addition, a breach could lead to a loss of confidence in our products and solutions and our business could be harmed. 14 Table of Contents Our products and solutions may also be integrated with, or interface with, products and solutions sold by third parties, and as a result rely on the security measures implemented by those third parties. Because we do not have control over the security measures implemented by third parties, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such third-party products or solutions. Concerns about security or customer privacy may result in the adoption of legislation that restricts the implementation of technologies like ours or requires us to make modifications to our products such as limiting how we collect, use and store data, which could significantly limit the deployment of our technologies or result in significant expense to modify our products. Any real or perceived security breach, or data leak affecting us, our customers or regarding information similar to the type we collect, or unauthorized collection, use or disclosure of information or personal data could harm our reputation and result in significant legal and financial exposure, including increased remediation costs and security protection costs, inhibit market acceptance of our products and solutions, halt or delay the deployment by utilities of our products and solutions, cause us to lose customers, harm our reputation, trigger unfavorable legislation and regulatory action, or inhibit the growth of the overall market for new products and solutions being sold to the utility industry. Any of these risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center facilities, or problems with the third-party hardware or software that we employ, could impair the delivery of our solutions and harm our business. We currently utilize data center facilities in the United States and Canada that are operated by third parties. These facilities may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, war, acts of terrorism, unauthorized entry, human error and computer viruses or other defects. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. We rely on software and hardware technology provided by third parties to enable us to provide these solutions. Any damage to, or failure of, these third-party data centers or the third-party hardware and software we employ, could result in significant and lengthy interruptions in our ability to provide our solutions to our utility customers and their subscribers. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for potentially significant losses that result from service interruptions and system failures. Such interruptions and system failures could reduce our revenue and bookings, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their agreements with us and harm our reputation and our ability to attract new utility customers. If our products contain defects or otherwise fail to perform as expected our reputation could be damaged, we could lose market share and, as a result, our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Our software platform is complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our platform is critical to our success. From time to time, we have found defects in our software, and new errors in our existing software may be detected in the future. If any of our products contain a material defect, do not function as anticipated, or do not safeguard customer data consistent with industry standards we may have to devote significant time and resources to find and correct the issue. Any system delays, interruptions or disruptions to our servers caused by telecommunications failures, computer viruses, physical break-ins, domain attacks, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems or servers that results in the unavailability or slowdown of our products or loss of data would reduce the attractiveness of our products. We may also experience interruptions caused by reasons beyond our control. Efforts to correct problems could divert the attention of our management team and other relevant personnel from other important tasks. Such failings might damage our reputation and relationships with utilities; result in the loss of business to competitors; result in fines or regulatory penalties against us; and result in litigation against us. Our technology, products and solutions have only been developed in the last several years and we have had only limited opportunities to deploy and assess their performance in the field at full scale. The current generation of our platform and solutions has been developed in the last several years and is continuing to evolve. Deploying and operating our technology is a complex endeavor and, until recently, had been done primarily in pilot programs. As the size, complexity and scope of our deployments have expanded, we have been able to test product performance at a greater scale and in a variety of new geographic settings and environmental conditions. These larger deployments have presented a number of unforeseen operational and technical challenges, which in some cases have caused delays and required us to commit significant resources to address these challenges. As the number, size and complexity of our deployments grow, we may continue to encounter unforeseen operational, technical and other challenges, some of which could cause significant delays and high deployment costs, which in turn may delay our ability to collect revenue, trigger contractual penalties, result in unanticipated expenses or damage to our reputation, each of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents To date, we have derived our revenue from a limited number of products and solutions. Our efforts to expand our product portfolio may not succeed, and may reduce our revenue growth rate. To date, we have derived our revenue from a limited number of products and solutions. Any factor adversely affecting sales of one or more of these products and solutions, including market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition and economic and market conditions, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our plan to expand our product and solution portfolio may not be successful, which may harm the growth of our business and our results of operations. Material defects or errors in our data collection and analysis systems could damage our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products. Our data collection and analysis systems are complex and may contain material defects or errors. In addition, the large amount of data that we collect may cause errors in our data collection and analysis systems. Any defect in our data collection software, network systems, statistical projections or other methodologies could result in: • loss of customers; • damage to our brand; • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products and solutions; • interruptions in the availability of our products and solutions; • the incurrence of substantial costs to correct any material defect or error; • sales credits, refunds or liability to our customers; • diversion of development resources; and • increased warranty and insurance costs. Any material defect or error in our data collection systems could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Our customers frequently insist on customized products, which are often difficult for us to deliver in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are not able to find a long-term solution for customer customization requests, our business and results of operations may suffer. Our customers often request customized service that is costly and time consuming for us to deliver. While we try to limit customization of our product for individual customers, customizations continue to take up valuable research and development resources. We are taking steps to make customization requests easier to fulfill, but those efforts may prove to be unsuccessful. If we are unable to make customization requests easier to fulfill, customer satisfaction would be negatively affected and our business and results of operations may suffer. Our business may be harmed if it is alleged or found that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and by litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have claimed and may continue to claim that we are infringing upon their patents or other intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be contractually obligated to indemnify our utility customers or other third parties that use or resell our products in the event our products are alleged to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. In many cases, these indemnification obligations are uncapped. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand and cause us to incur significant expenses. Even if we are indemnified against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. Further, claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to redesign affected products, delay affected product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing, selling or distributing the affected products. If we cannot or do not license the alleged infringed technology on reasonable terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be harmed. Additionally, our utility customers may not purchase our products if they are concerned that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights. This could reduce the market opportunity for the sale of our products and solutions. The occurrence of any of these events may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to this general risk, we are aware of specific patents that we could be accused of, or allegedly are, infringing. We believe we would have valid defenses available to us if adjudicated, but our defense may not be successful. Even if our defenses are valid, however, responding to an accusation of patent infringement could be time consuming and costly to defend. 16 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying, infringement or use, which could harm our competitive position. In recent years, in the United States and elsewhere, considerable doubt has been cast upon the validity of software patents as a whole. Were the underlying laws to change, such that we were no longer able to patent our software platform, our intellectual property rights might be more difficult to protect. We cannot ensure that any of our pending applications will be granted or that any patents that may be issued will adequately protect our intellectual property. In addition, third parties have in the past and could in the future bring infringement, invalidity, co-inventorship, re-examination or similar claims with respect to any patents that may be issued to us in the future. Any such claims, whether or not successful, could be extremely costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand, and harm our business and results of operations. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others, we may initiate patent litigation or other proceedings against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Any lawsuits or proceedings that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Litigation and other proceedings also put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits or other proceedings that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our products rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties. We may seek to license technology from third parties for future products and solutions. We may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to retain our current third-party licenses or obtain third-party licenses required to develop new products or product enhancements could require us to obtain alternate technology that may be of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, or could require that we change our product and design plans, any of which could limit or delay our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We use open source software in our products and solutions that may subject our products and solutions to general release or require us to re-engineer our products and solutions, which may harm our business. We use open source software in connection with our products and solutions. From time to time, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and compliance with open source license terms. Therefore, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Although we attempt to make sure open source software is only used in a manner that would not require us to disclose the source code to the related product or that would not otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur and we may be required to release proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and, results of operations. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, the value of our technology and products could be harmed. In addition to patent-pending technology, we rely on our unpatented technology and trade secrets. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees and contractors and with parties with which we do business. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, our trade secrets may be disclosed to or otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, contractors or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. These disputes could result in substantial litigation costs, monetary damages or restrictions on our ability to offer our products and solutions. If our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Developments in data protection laws and regulations may affect our solutions, which could harm our business. Our solutions may be subject to data protection laws and regulations that impose a general framework for the collection, processing and use of personal data. Our platform and solutions rely on the transfer of data relating to individual energy usage and may be affected by these laws and regulations. It is unclear how the regulations governing the collection, use and disclosure of personal data in connection with privacy requirements will further develop in the United States and internationally, and to what extent this may affect our solutions. In particular, Public Utility Commissions in some states are developing breach notification and other privacy regulations that may be more stringent than privacy laws generally applicable in those states and may impose increased costs on utilities and their service providers. These developments could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to international business uncertainties that could harm our business and results of operations or slow our growth. Our ability to grow our business and our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our operations and customer base worldwide. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and, other than our experience operating in the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Sweden, Australia, Hong Kong, Japan and New Zealand, we have limited experience entering new geographic markets. We operate a subsidiary in Odessa, Ukraine, which we formed to expand our research and development workforce. Ukraine is experiencing significant unrest, which has escalated into an armed conflict with Russia. In addition, the U.S. and other countries have placed economic sanctions on the Crimea region of Ukraine and numerous individuals and businesses in Ukraine. Additional sanctions are possible as the situation continues into 2015. The conflict and associated sanctions may impact our operations, which would in turn compromise our ability to develop our products at the pace and cost that we desire. In addition, the World Bank ranks Ukraine among the bottom half of countries with regulatory environments favorable to starting and operating a local business. This difficult regulatory environment may result in operational delays and increased regulatory compliance burdens that we may not be able to meet. Therefore, this and other international efforts may not be successful. International sales and operations are subject to risks such as: • inability to localize our product; • lack of effectiveness of our solutions in new markets; • technology compatibility; • the imposition of government controls; • government expropriation of facilities; • lack of a well-established system of laws and enforcement of those laws; • lack of a legal system free of undue influence or corruption; • exposure to a business culture in which improper sales practices may be prevalent; • restrictions on the import or export of critical technology; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • multiple and possibly overlapping tax regimes and adverse tax burdens; • compliance with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act of 2010; • lack of availability of qualified third-party financing; • generally longer receivable collection periods than in the United States; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • preference for local vendors; • burdens of complying with different permitting standards; • a wide variety of foreign laws and obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash; • difficulties in handling legal disputes in foreign jurisdictions; and • different or lesser protection of our intellectual property. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may impact our ability to compete in international markets. International expansion and market acceptance depend on our ability to modify our business approach and technology to take into account such factors as differing customer business models, product requirements and needs, the applicable regulatory and business environment, labor costs and other economic conditions. These factors may harm our future international sales and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations and slow our future growth. 18 Table of Contents Federal, state and international laws regulating telephone and email marketing practices impose certain obligations on marketers, which could reduce our ability to expand our business. We make telephone calls and send emails and text messages as part of our solutions. The United States regulates marketing by telephone, text message and email. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act prohibits companies from making telemarketing calls to numbers listed in the Federal Do-Not-Call Registry and imposes other obligations and limitation on making phone calls and sending text messages to consumers. The Federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (the “CAN-SPAM Act”) regulates commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that do not comply with certain requirements, such as providing an opt-out mechanism for stopping future emails from senders. We may need to comply with such laws and any associated rules and regulations. States and other countries have similar laws related to telemarketing and commercial emails. Additional or modified laws and regulations, or interpretations of existing, modified or new laws, regulations and rules, could prohibit or increase the cost of engaging with energy consumers and impair our ability to expand the use of our solutions, including our demand response solution, to more customers. Failure to comply with obligations and restrictions related to telephone, text message and email marketing could subject us to lawsuits, fines, statutory damages, consent decrees, injunctions, adverse publicity and other losses that could harm our business. We incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our results of operations and our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and board members. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements. These requirements include compliance with Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), as well as rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and other applicable securities or exchange-related rules and regulations. In addition, our management team will also have to adapt to the requirements of being a public company. Complying with these rules and regulations substantially increases our legal and financial compliance costs and makes some activities more difficult, time consuming or costly. These impacts will increase when we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”). We are an “emerging growth company,” and any decision on our part to comply with certain reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding an annual non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and nonbinding stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. If we choose not to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our auditors will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, investors may become less comfortable with the effectiveness of our internal controls and the risk that material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls go undetected may increase. If we choose to provide reduced disclosures in our periodic reports and proxy statements while we are an emerging growth company, investors would have access to less information and analysis about our executive compensation, which may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our executive compensation practices. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions and provide reduced disclosure. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be harmed. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest to occur of: the last day of the fiscal year in which we have more than $1.0 billion in annual revenue; the date we qualify as a ‘‘large accelerated filer,’’ with at least $700 million of equity securities held by non-affiliates; the issuance, in any three-year period, by us of more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities; or the last day of the fiscal year ending after the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we have chosen to ‘‘opt out’’ of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. 19 Table of Contents We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we expect to make every effort to address this material weakness, we may find that we are unable to remediate this deficiency in our control environment, which could reduce the reliability of our financial reporting, harm investor confidence in our company and affect the value of our common stock. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2014, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness relates to our financial statement close process and the lack of sufficient financial accounting and reporting expertise commensurate with our financial reporting requirements during this period. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are currently in the process of remediating the material weakness and are taking numerous steps that we believe will address the underlying causes of the material weakness, primarily through the hiring of additional accounting and finance personnel with technical accounting and financial reporting experience, enhancing and segregating duties within our accounting and finance department, and enhancing our internal review procedures during the financial statement close process. If we fail to effectively remediate deficiencies in our control environment we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, or report them within the timeframes required by the SEC. Even if we are able to report our financial statements accurately and in a timely manner, if we do not make all necessary improvements to address the material weakness, continued disclosure of a material weakness will be required in future filings with the SEC, which could cause our reputation to be harmed and our stock price to decline. We are obligated to develop and maintain a system of effective internal controls over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may harm investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the second annual report we file with the SEC. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, as well as a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. Our auditors will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until we are no longer an ‘‘emerging growth company’’ as defined in the JOBS Act if we take advantage of the exemptions available to us through the JOBS Act. We are in the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to remediate our current material weakness or any future material weaknesses, or to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls when they are required to issue such opinion, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could harm our stock price. Acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. In order to remain competitive, obtain key competencies or accelerate our time to market, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products or technologies. We have not completed any acquisitions to date and we therefore have no experience in successfully acquiring and integrating additional businesses, products or technologies. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. We may have difficulty integrating acquired technologies or products with our existing products and solutions. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock. In addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may not result in the synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in substantial write-offs. Further, contemplating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology will significantly divert management and employee time and resources. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards, which could harm our results of operations. As of December 31, 2014, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards due to prior period losses of $91.2 million for U.S. federal purposes, which if not utilized will begin to expire in 2027. Realization of these net operating loss carryforwards is dependent upon future income, and there is a risk that our existing carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could harm our results of operations. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, in any taxable year may be limited if we have experienced or experience in connection with our initial public offering or in the future an “ownership change.” A Section 382 “ownership change” generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. Our initial public offering or future issuances of our stock could cause an “ownership change.” It is possible that an ownership change, or any future ownership change, could have a material effect on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, which could harm our results of operations. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. In the future, we may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances and may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. In the future, we may not be able to timely secure debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be limited. Our business could be severely harmed by natural disasters or other catastrophes. A significant catastrophic event such as war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fire or floods, loss of power, computer viruses, or global threats, including, but not limited to, the outbreak of epidemic disease, could disrupt our operations and impair deployment of our solutions by our utility customers, interrupt critical functions, cause our suppliers to be unable to meet our demand for parts and equipment, reduce demand for our products, prevent our utility customers from honoring their contractual obligations to us or otherwise harm our business. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of the deployment of our products and solutions, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers and directors and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of February 28, 2015, our executive officers and directors and entities that are affiliated with them beneficially owned, in the aggregate, 51% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Some of these persons or entities may have interests that are different from yours. For example, these stockholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your interests. These stockholders will be able to exercise a significant level of control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in management and will make the approval of certain transactions difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Prior to our initial public offering, there was no public market for shares of our common stock, and the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The trading price of our common stock depends on a number of factors, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; • sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; • failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; • rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our results of operations; • actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally; • litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; • any significant change in our management; and • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline and the large number of shares eligible for public sale could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and the perception that these sales could occur may also depress the market price of our common stock. As of February 28, 2015, we had 50,734,651 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, we filed a registration statement to register the 6,007,317 shares reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans. Upon the satisfaction of applicable vesting periods, the shares of common stock issued upon exercise of outstanding options or settlement of restricted stock units awarded under our equity compensation plans will be available for immediate resale in the United States in the open market. Sales of our common stock may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. These sales also could cause our stock price to fall and make it more difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware Law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain or will contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: • creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; • authorizing “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings; • providing our board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings; • establishing that the number of directors is set by the board of directors; • providing that board vacancies be filled by the board of directors; and • limiting the ability to remove directors other than for cause. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, or if our actual results differ significantly from our guidance, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. In addition, from time to time, we may release earnings guidance or other forward-looking statements in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls or otherwise regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. Some or all of the assumptions of any future guidance that we furnish may not materialize or may vary significantly from actual future results. Any failure to meet guidance or analysts’ expectations could have a material adverse effect on the trading price or trading volume of our stock. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 