ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our independent registered public accounting firm has included an emphasis paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012. As discussed in “Part I, Item 1, Business —Going Concern Considerations,” and "Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Developments – Credit Facility," the uncertainty regarding the future of our existing credit facility has created substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a consequence, our auditors have included an emphasis paragraph with respect to this issue in their report on our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (our “consolidated 2012 financial statements”). Our consolidated 2012 financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. All amounts outstanding under the revolving credit line portion of our existing credit facility have been classified as current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2012. While our consolidated 2012 financial statements reflect significant asset impairment expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012, they do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of asset carrying amounts or the amount of and classification of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. The presence of the going concern emphasis paragraph in our auditors’ report may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties with whom we do business, including our customers, vendors, lenders and employees, making it difficult to raise additional debt or equity financing to the extent needed. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our management has been actively working and will continue to work with the lenders to amend the provisions and extend the term of our existing credit facility. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in amending and extending the facility. Therefore, there can be no guarantee that our existing sources of cash and our future cash flows from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity requirements, including cash requirements that are due under our existing credit facility or that are needed to fund our business operations. If we are unable to address our liquidity challenges, then our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected, potentially resulting in the need to curtail our business operations and/or reorganize our capital structure. In the event that we are unable to achieve an acceptable negotiated restructuring of our indebtedness, we may be forced to seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We are engaged in continuing discussions with the lenders for our existing credit facility to amend the provisions and extend the term of such credit facility. In the event that we are unable to amend and extend our existing credit facility on acceptable terms, we may be forced to seek some form of restructuring. There can be no assurance that either an agreement regarding amendment and extension of our existing credit facility or an agreement regarding any such restructuring will be obtained on acceptable terms or at all. If such an acceptable agreement is not obtained in a timely manner, we will be in default under our existing credit facility at some time before or when it matures in July 2013 and our lenders will be entitled to accelerate all of our obligations under such credit facility. In addition, any such default under our existing credit facility could result in a cross-default or the acceleration of our payment obligations under other financing agreements. In any such event, we may be required to seek a reorganization under court supervision pursuant to a voluntary bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We may not have sufficient cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, subordinated units and general partner units following the establishment of cash reserves by our general partner and the payment of costs and expenses, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner. In order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.4375 per unit per quarter, or $1.75 per unit per year, we will require available cash of more than $9.3 million per quarter, or $37.0 million per year, based on the number of general partner units, common units and subordinated units outstanding at December 31, 2012. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of coal we are able to produce from our properties; 31 • the price at which we are able to sell coal, which is affected by the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; • the level of our operating costs; • weather conditions; • the proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the effect of world-wide energy consumption; and • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of our capital expenditures; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our current or future debt agreements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • unavailability of financing resulting in unanticipated liquidity restraints; and • the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by our managing general partner, in its discretion, for the proper conduct of our business. Because of these and other factors, we may not have sufficient available cash to pay a specific level of cash distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses and may be unable to make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Please read “—Risks Related to our Business” for a discussion of further risks affecting our ability to generate available cash. In January 2013, we determined to suspend the cash distributions on both our common and subordinated units based upon weakness in the coal markets. Under our partnership agreement, arrearage amounts resulting from suspension of the common units distribution accumulate. Arrearage amounts resulting from suspension of the subordinated units distribution do not accumulate. In the future if and as distributions are made for any quarter, the first priority is to pay the then minimum quarterly distribution to common unitholders. Any additional distribution amounts paid at that time are then paid to common unitholders until their previously unpaid accumulated arrearage amounts have been paid in full. At December 31, 2012, the accumulated arrearage amounts totaled $2.5 million. 32 Any change in consumption patterns by utilities away from the use of coal, such as resulting from current low natural gas prices, could affect our ability to sell the coal we produce, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Steam coal accounted for approximately 100% of our coal sales volume for the year ended December 31, 2012. During this period, 71.7% of our sales of steam coal were to electric utilities for use primarily as fuel for domestic electricity consumption. The amount of coal consumed by the domestic electric utility industry is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, and the price and availability of competing fuels for power plants such as nuclear, natural gas and oil as well as alternative sources of energy. We compete generally with producers of other fuels, such as natural gas and oil. A decline in price for these fuels could cause demand for coal to decrease and adversely affect the price of our coal. For example, low natural gas prices have led, in some instances, to decreased coal consumption by electricity-generating utilities. If alternative energy sources, such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind or solar, become more cost-competitive on an overall basis, demand for coal could decrease and the price of coal could be materially and adversely affected. Further, legislation requiring, subsidizing or providing tax benefit for the use of alternative energy sources and fuels, or legislation providing financing or incentives to encourage continuing technological advances in this area, could further enable alternative energy sources to become more competitive with coal. A decrease in coal consumption by the domestic electric utility industry could adversely affect the price of coal, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We depend on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenues. If a substantial portion of our supply contracts terminate or if any of these customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, and we are unable to successfully renegotiate or replace these contracts on comparable terms, then our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be adversely affected. We sell a material portion of our coal under supply contracts. As of December 31, 2012 we had sales commitments for approximately 97.9% of our estimated coal production (including purchased coal to supplement our production) for the year ending December 31, 2013. When our current contracts with customers expire, our customers may decide not to extend or enter into new contracts. Of these committed tons, under the terms of the supply contracts, we are committed to ship 6.5 million tons in 2013, 5.2 million tons in 2014, 4.4 million tons in 2015 and 2.5 million tons in 2016. Some of the contracts amounting to 2.1 million, 4.2 million, and 2.5 million tons of coal in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively, have sales price adjustment provisions, subject to certain limitations and adjustments, based on a variety of factors and indices. We derived approximately 93.3% of our total revenues from coal sales to our ten largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2012, with affiliates of our top three customers accounting for approximately 72.6% of our coal sales revenues during that period. In the absence of long-term contracts, our customers may decide to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on different terms, including different pricing terms. Negotiations to extend existing contracts or enter into new long-term contracts with those and other customers may not be successful, and those customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under long-term coal supply contracts or may significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us. In addition, interruption in the purchases by or operations of our principal customers could significantly affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Unscheduled maintenance outages at our customers' power plants and unseasonably moderate weather are examples of conditions that might cause our customers to reduce their purchases. Our mines may have difficulty identifying alternative purchasers of their coal if their existing customers suspend or terminate their purchases. For more information regarding our long-term coal sales contracts, please read “Part I, Item 1 - Business — Customers – Long-term coal supply contracts.” A decline in coal prices could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our results of operations and the value of our coal reserves are significantly dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal as well as our ability to improve productivity and control costs. The prices we receive for coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including: • the domestic and foreign supply and demand for coal; • the quantity and quality of coal available from competitors; • a decline in prices under existing contracts in any case where the pricing under such contracts is tied to and adjusted periodically based on indices reflecting current market pricing; 33 • competition for production of electricity from non-coal sources, including the price and availability of alternative fuels; • domestic air emission standards for coal-fueled power plants and the ability of coal-fueled power plants to meet these standards by installing scrubbers or other means; • adverse weather, climatic or other natural conditions, including natural disasters; • the level of domestic and foreign taxes; • domestic and foreign economic conditions, including economic slowdowns; • legislative, regulatory and judicial developments, environmental regulatory changes or changes in energy policy and energy conservation measures that would adversely affect the coal industry, such as legislation limiting carbon emissions or providing for increased funding and incentives for alternative energy sources; • the proximity to, capacity of and cost of transportation and port facilities; and • market price fluctuations for sulfur dioxide emission allowances. Any adverse change in these factors could result in weaker demand and lower prices for our products. In addition, the recent global economic downturn, coupled with the global financial and credit market disruptions, has had an impact on the coal industry generally and may continue to do so. The demand for electricity, including electrical demand from industrial customers, may remain at low levels or further decline if economic conditions remain weak. If these trends continue, we may not be able to sell all of the coal we are capable of producing or sell our coal at prices comparable to recent years. Recent low prices for natural gas, which is a substitute for coal-generated power, may also lead to continued decreased coal consumption by electricity-generating utilities. A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal supply contracts could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to obtain and/or renew permits necessary for our operations, which could prevent us from mining certain reserves. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations, and we can face delays, challenges to, and difficulties in acquiring, maintaining or renewing necessary permits and approvals, including environmental permits. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently, and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical, and may possibly preclude the continuance of ongoing mining operations or the development of future mining operations. In addition, the public has certain statutory rights to comment upon and otherwise impact the permitting process, including through court intervention. Over the past few years, the length of time needed to bring a new surface mine into production has increased because of the increased time required to obtain necessary permits. The slowing pace at which permits are issued or renewed for new and existing mines has materially impacted production in Appalachia, but could also affect other regions in the future. Section 402 National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits and Section 404 CWA permits are required to discharge wastewater and discharge dredged or fill material into waters of the United States. Our surface coal mining operations typically require such permits to authorize such activities as the creation of slurry ponds, stream impoundments, and valley fills. Although the CWA gives the EPA a limited oversight role in the Section 404 permitting program, the EPA has recently asserted its authorities more forcefully to question, delay, and prevent issuance of some Section 404 permits for surface coal mining in Appalachia. Currently, significant uncertainty exists regarding the obtaining of permits under the CWA for coal mining operations in Appalachia due to various initiatives launched by the EPA regarding these permits. Please read "Part I, Item 1. Business - Environmental, Safety and Other Regulatory Matters — Clean Water Act" for a discussion of recent litigation and regulatory developments related to the CWA. An inability to obtain the necessary permits to conduct our mining operations or an inability to comply with the requirements of applicable permits would reduce our production and cash flows, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 34 Certain provisions in our long-term supply contracts may provide limited protection during adverse economic conditions, may result in economic penalties to us or permit the customer to terminate the contract. Price adjustment, "price re-opener" and other similar provisions in our supply contracts may reduce the protection from short-term coal price volatility traditionally provided by such contracts. Price re-opener provisions typically require the parties to agree on a new price. Failure of the parties to agree on a price under a price re-opener provision can lead to termination of the contract. Any adjustment or renegotiations leading to a significantly lower contract price could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Coal supply contracts also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by our customers or us during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most of our coal supply contracts also contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, hardness and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. In addition, certain of our supply contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract in the event of changes in regulations affecting our industry that increase the price of coal beyond a specified limit. If we are not able to acquire replacement coal reserves that are economically recoverable, our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders depend substantially on obtaining coal reserves that have geological characteristics that enable them to be mined at competitive costs and to meet the coal quality needed by our customers. Because we deplete our reserves as we mine coal, our future success and growth will depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. If we fail to acquire or develop additional reserves, our existing reserves will eventually be depleted. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. We may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we acquire, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines with certain valuable coal characteristics also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. Our ability to obtain other reserves, could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements. We could be negatively impacted by the competitiveness of the markets in which we compete and declines in the market demand for coal. We compete with coal producers in the Northern Appalachia and the Illinois Basin and in other coal producing regions of the United States. The domestic demand for, and prices of, our coal primarily depend on coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric utility industry. Consumption by the domestic electric utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel sources, such as natural gas, nuclear, hydroelectric power and other renewable energy sources. In 2012 the EIA estimates that coal consumption in the electric power sector totaled 829 million tons, the lowest amount since 1992 due to historically low natural gas prices paid by the electric generators that led to a significant increase in the share of natural gas-fired power generation. The economic stability of these markets has a significant effect on the demand for coal and the level of competition in supplying these markets. During the last several years, the U.S. coal industry has experienced increased consolidation, which has contributed to the industry becoming more competitive. Increased competition by coal producers or producers of alternate fuels could decrease the demand for, or pricing of, or both, for our coal, adversely impacting our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Federal and state laws restricting the emissions of greenhouse gases in areas where we conduct our business or sell our coal could adversely affect our operations and demand for our coal. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and impacting climate. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is considering legislation to reduce emissions of green house gas (“GHG”). Many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHG, primarily through the development of regional GHG cap-and-trade programs. 35 In the wake of the Supreme Court's April 2, 2007 decision in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, which held that GHG fall under the definition of "air pollutant" in the CAA, in December 2009 the EPA issued a final rule declaring that six GHG, including carbon dioxide and methane, "endanger both the public health and the public welfare of current and future generations." The issuance of this "endangerment finding" allows the EPA to begin regulating GHG emissions under existing provisions of the CAA. There are many regulatory approaches currently in effect or being considered to address GHG, including possible future U.S. treaty commitments, new federal or state legislation that may impose a carbon emissions tax or establish a cap-and-trade program and regulation by the EPA. The permitting of new coal-fired power plants has also been contested by state regulators and environmental organizations for concerns related to GHG emissions from the new plants. In addition, several permits issued to new coal-fired power plants without limits on GHG emissions have been appealed to EPA's Environmental Appeals Board. As state permitting authorities continue to consider GHG control requirements as part of major source permitting Best Available Control Technology (“BACT”) requirements, costs associated with new facility permitting and use of coal could increase substantially. A growing concern is the possibility that BACT will be determined to be the use of an alternative fuel to coal. As a result of these current and proposed laws, regulations and trends, electricity generators may elect to switch to other fuels that generate less GHG emissions, possibly further reducing demand for our coal, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Please read "Part I, Item 1 - Business — Environmental, Safety and Other Regulatory Matters — Climate Change.” Existing and future laws and regulations regulating the emission of sulfur dioxide and other compounds could affect coal consumers and as a result reduce the demand for our coal. A reduction in demand for our coal could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Federal, state and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants and other consumers of our coal. These laws and regulations can require significant emission control expenditures, and various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated emission control expenditures. A certain portion of our coal has a medium to high sulfur content, which results in increased sulfur dioxide emissions when combusted and therefore the use of our coal imposes certain additional costs on customers. Accordingly, these laws and regulations may affect demand and prices for our higher sulfur coal. Please read "Part I, Item 1 - Business — Environmental, Safety and Other Regulatory Matters — Air Emissions.” Our mining operations are subject to operating risks that could adversely affect production levels and operating costs. Our mining operations are subject to conditions and events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, resulting in decreased production levels and increased costs. These risks include: • unfavorable geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or surface rights; • changes in governmental regulation of the mining industry or the electric utility industry; • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; • accidental mine water flooding; • labor-related interruptions; • transportation delays; • mining and processing equipment unavailability and failures and unexpected maintenance problems; and 36 • accidents, including fire and explosions from methane. Any of these conditions may increase the cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines for varying lengths of time, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. In general, mining accidents present a risk of various potential liabilities depending on the nature of the accident, the location, the proximity of employees or other persons to the accident scene and a range of other factors. Possible liabilities arising from a mining accident include workmen's compensation claims or civil lawsuits for workplace injuries, claims for personal injury or property damage by people living or working nearby, and fines and penalties including possible criminal enforcement against us and certain of our employees. In addition, a significant accident that results in a mine shut-down could give rise to liabilities for failure to meet the requirements of coal-supply agreements, especially if the counterparties dispute our invocation of the force majeure provisions of those agreements. We maintain insurance coverage to mitigate the risks of certain of these liabilities, but those policies are subject to various exclusions and limitations. We cannot assure you that we will receive coverage under those policies for any personal injury, or property damage that may arise out of such an accident. Currently, we do not carry business interruption insurance and we may not carry other types of insurance in the future. Moreover, certain potential liabilities, such as fines and penalties, are not insurable risks. Thus, a serious mine accident may result in material liabilities that adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority to order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed under certain circumstances, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority under certain circumstances following significant health and safety incidents, such as fatalities, to order a mine to be temporarily or permanently closed. If this occurred, we may be required to incur capital expenditures to re-open the mine. In the event that these agencies order the closing of our mines, our coal sales contracts generally permit us to issue force majeure notices which suspend our obligations to deliver coal under these contracts. However, our customers may challenge our issuances of force majeure notices. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third-party sources, if it is available, to fulfill these obligations, incur capital expenditures to re-open the mines and/or negotiate settlements with the customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments, the extension of time for delivery or the termination of customers’ contracts. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the future, we may not receive cash distributions from Harrison Resources, and Harrison Resources may not be able to acquire additional reserves on economical terms from CONSOL Energy. In January 2007, we entered into a joint venture, Harrison Resources, with CONSOL Energy. Pursuant to its operating agreement, all members of Harrison Resources must approve cash distributions, other than tax distributions, to its members. Prior to 2012, the members of Harrison Resources have consistently approved cash distributions from Harrison Resources on a quarterly basis. In 2012, the members of Harrison Resources did not approve a cash distribution as it was necessary to reserve cash to pay coal reserves acquisition costs. It is expected that it will be necessary to continue to reserve cash for such purpose rather than paying a cash distribution during all of 2013 and some or all of 2014, and for that reason and otherwise there can be no assurance that we will receive regular cash distributions from Harrison Resources in the future. CONSOL Energy controls the vast majority of the additional reserves in Harrison County, Ohio that could be acquired by Harrison Resources in the future. However, CONSOL Energy has no obligation to sell those reserves to Harrison Resources, and we cannot assure you that Harrison Resources could acquire those reserves from CONSOL Energy on acceptable terms. As a result, the growth of, and therefore our ability to receive future distributions from, Harrison Resources may be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 37 Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. For discussion of our recent suspension of cash distributions, see the risk factor entitled: “We may not have sufficient cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, subordinated units and general partner units following the establishment of cash reserves by our general partner and the payment of costs and expenses, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner.” In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our credit agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. Unexpected increases in raw material costs, such as steel, diesel fuel and explosives, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our coal mining operations are affected by commodity prices. We use significant amounts of steel, diesel fuel, explosives and other raw materials in our mining operations, and volatility in the prices for these raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Steel prices and the prices of scrap steel, natural gas and coking coal consumed in the production of iron and steel fluctuate significantly and may change unexpectedly. Additionally, a limited number of suppliers exist for explosives, and any of these suppliers may divert their products to other industries. Shortages in raw materials used in the manufacturing of explosives, which, in some cases, do not have ready substitutes, or the cancellation of supply contracts under which these raw materials are obtained, could increase the prices and limit the ability of us or our contractors to obtain these supplies. Future volatility in the price of steel, diesel fuel, explosives or other raw materials will impact our operating expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Fluctuations in transportation costs or disruptions in transportation services could increase competition or impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We depend upon barge, rail and truck systems to deliver coal to our customers. Disruptions in transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, and other events could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. As we do not have long-term contracts with transportation providers to ensure consistent and reliable service, decreased performance levels over longer periods of time could cause our customers to look to other sources for their coal needs. In addition, increases in transportation costs, including the price of gasoline and diesel fuel, could make coal a less competitive source of energy when compared to alternative fuels or could make coal produced in one region of the United States less competitive than coal produced in other regions of the United States or abroad. In recent years, the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the State of West Virginia have increased enforcement of weight limits on coal trucks on their public roads. It is possible that all states in which our coal is transported by truck may modify their laws to limit truck weight limits. Such legislation and enforcement efforts could result in shipment delays and increased costs. An increase in transportation costs could have an adverse effect on our ability to increase or to maintain production and could adversely affect revenues. If we experience disruptions in our transportation services or if transportation costs increase significantly and we are unable to find alternative transportation providers, our coal mining operations may be disrupted, could experience a delay or halt of production, or profitability could decrease significantly. 38 Our mining operations are subject to extensive and costly environmental laws and regulations, and such current and future laws and regulations could materially increase our operating costs or limit our ability to produce and sell coal. The coal mining industry is subject to numerous and extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations pertaining to permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties, the discharge of materials into the environment, the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes, protection of wetlands, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these laws and regulations are significant and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of our operations. Moreover, the possibility exists that new laws or regulations (or new judicial interpretations or enforcement policies of existing laws and regulations) could materially affect our mining operations, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders, either through direct impacts such as those regulating our existing mining operations, or indirect impacts such as those that discourage or limit our customers' use of coal. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with existing laws and regulations, we may, in the future, experience violations that would subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties and a range of other possible sanctions. The enforcement of laws and regulations governing the coal mining industry has increased substantially. As a result, the consequences for any noncompliance may become more significant in the future. Our operations use petroleum products, coal processing chemicals and other materials that may be considered "hazardous materials" under applicable environmental laws and have the potential to generate other materials, all of which may affect runoff or drainage water. In the event of environmental contamination or a release of these materials, we could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages and for the investigation and cleanup of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media, as well as abandoned and closed mines located on property we operate. Such claims may arise out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Mining in Northern Appalachia and the Illinois Basin is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the United States, which could affect our mining operations and cost structures in these areas. The geological characteristics of Northern Appalachian and Illinois Basin coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those of the depleting mines. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the mining operations and cost structures of our mines in Northern Appalachia and the Illinois Basin. If the assumptions underlying our reclamation and mine closure obligations are materially inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The Federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 and counterpart state laws and regulations establish operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining, as well as most aspects of underground mining. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. The estimate of ultimate reclamation liability is reviewed periodically by our management. The estimated liability can change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. Please read "Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Reclamation and Mine Closure Costs." The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures that we are required to deduct from operating surplus each quarter could increase in the future, resulting in a decrease in available cash from operating surplus that we could distribute to our unitholders. Maintenance capital expenditures that we are required to deduct from operating surplus each quarter could increase in the future, resulting in a decrease in available cash from operating surplus that we could distribute to our unitholders. 39 Our partnership agreement requires us to deduct from operating surplus each quarter estimated maintenance capital expenditures as opposed to actual maintenance capital expenditures in order to reduce disparities in operating surplus caused by fluctuating maintenance capital expenditures, such as reserve replacement costs or refurbishment or replacement of mine equipment. Our annual estimated maintenance capital expenditures for purposes of calculating operating surplus are $22.0 million to $25.0 million for 2013. The estimated maintenance capital expenditures are based on our current estimates of the amounts of expenditures we will be required to make in the future to maintain our long-term operating capacity, which we believe to be reasonable. Our partnership agreement does not cap the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that we may estimate. The amount of our estimated maintenance capital expenditures may be more than our actual maintenance capital expenditures, which will reduce the amount of available cash from operating surplus that we would otherwise have available for distribution to unitholders. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. Our level of indebtedness could have significant consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures (including acquisitions) or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • covenants contained in our existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities; • we will need a portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, distributions to unitholders and future business opportunities; • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Increases in our total indebtedness would increase our total interest expense, which would in turn reduce our forecasted cash available for distribution. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our business and financing activities and limit our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of certain events. Our credit facility limits our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units; • make certain investments and acquisitions; • incur certain liens or permit them to exist; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company; and • transfer or otherwise dispose of assets. 40 Our credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. The provisions of our credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new debt could have similar restrictions. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit agreement, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders' commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit agreement, the lenders could seek to foreclose on such assets. For more information, please read "Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facility." We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. We depend on the services of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any member of senior management or key employee could have an adverse effect on our business and reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or other key employees if their services were no longer available. A shortage of skilled labor in the mining industry could reduce productivity and increase operating costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers. The coal industry is experiencing a shortage of skilled labor, as well as rising labor and benefit costs, due in large part to demographic changes as existing miners retire at a faster rate than new miners are entering the workforce. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens or coal producers are unable to train enough skilled laborers, there could be an adverse impact on productivity, an increase in our costs, and our ability to expand production may be limited. If coal prices decrease or our labor prices increase, our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Our workforce could become unionized in the future, which could adversely affect the stability of our production and materially reduce our profitability. Currently, none of our employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. However, all of our workforce may not remain union-free in the future. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized, it could adversely affect our productivity and labor costs and increase the risk of work stoppages. Inaccuracies in our estimates of our coal reserves could result in lower than expected revenues or higher than expected costs. We base our and the joint venture's coal reserve and non-reserve coal deposit estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff, which is periodically audited by an independent engineering firm. These estimates are also based on the expected costs of production, projected sale prices and assumptions concerning the ability to obtain mining permits. The estimates of coal reserves and non-reserve coal deposits as to both quantity and quality are periodically updated to reflect the production of coal from the reserves, updated geologic models and mining recovery data, recently acquired coal reserves and estimated costs of production and sales prices. There are numerous factors and assumptions inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of coal reserves, and non-reserve coal deposits and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: • quality of the coal; 41 • geologic and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data or may differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine; • the percentage of coal ultimately recoverable; • the assumed effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits, and taxes, including severance and excise taxes and royalties, and other payments to governmental agencies; • assumptions concerning the timing for the development of reserves; and • assumptions concerning equipment and productivity, future coal prices, operating costs, including for critical supplies such as fuel, tires and explosives, capital expenditures and development and reclamation costs. As a result, estimates of the quantities and qualities of economically recoverable coal attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, estimated cost of production, and estimates of future net cash flows expected from these properties as prepared by different engineers and accounting personnel, or by the same engineers and accounting personnel at different times, may vary materially due to changes in the above factors and assumptions. Actual production recovered from identified reserve areas and properties, and revenues and expenditures associated with our mining operations, may vary materially from estimates. Any inaccuracy in the estimates related to our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our lessees' mining operations and their financial condition and results of operations are subject to some of the same risks and uncertainties that we face as a mine operator. The mining operations and financial condition and results of operations of our lessees are subject to the same risks and uncertainties that we face as a mine operator. If any such risks were to occur, the business, financial condition and results of operations of the lessees could be adversely affected and as a result our coal royalty revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness deteriorates. Our ability to receive payment for the coal we sell depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. The current economic volatility and tight credit markets increase the risk that we may not be able to collect payments from our customers. A continuation or worsening of current economic conditions or other prolonged global or U.S. recessions could also impact the creditworthiness of our customers. If the creditworthiness of a customer declines, this would increase the risk that we may not be able to collect payment for all of the coal we sell to that customer. If we determine that a customer is not creditworthy, we may not be required to deliver coal under the customer’s coal sales contract. If we are able to withhold shipments, we may decide to sell the customer’s coal on the spot market, which may be at prices lower than the contract price, or we may be unable to sell the coal at all. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of any of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk of payment default. In addition, we sell some of our mined coal to coal brokers who may resell our coal to end users, including utilities. These coal brokers may have only limited assets, making them less creditworthy than the end users. Under some of these arrangements, we have contractual privity only with the brokers and may not be able to pursue claims against the end users in connection with these sales if we do not receive payment from the broker. In 2012, approximately 38.0% of our coal sales were through coal brokers. We expect our coal sales through coal brokers to increase to approximately 40.8% of our sales in 2013. 42 Federal and state laws require bonds to secure our obligations to reclaim mined property. Our inability to acquire or failure to maintain, obtain or renew these surety bonds could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce coal, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We are required under federal and state laws to place and maintain bonds to secure our obligations to return property to its approximate original state after the property has been mined (often referred to as "reclamation") and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. Federal and state governments could increase bonding requirements in the future. Certain business transactions, such as coal leases and other obligations, may also require bonding. We may have difficulty procuring or maintaining our surety bonds. Our bond issuers may demand higher fees, additional collateral, including supporting letters of credit or posting cash collateral or other terms less favorable to us upon those renewals. The failure to maintain or the inability to acquire sufficient surety bonds, as required by state and federal laws, could subject us to fines and penalties as well as the loss of our mining permits. Such failure could result from a variety of factors, including: • the lack of availability, higher expense or unreasonable terms of new surety bonds; • the ability of current and future surety bond issuers to increase required collateral; and • the exercise by third-party surety bond holders of their right to refuse to renew the surety bonds. We maintain surety bonds with third parties for reclamation expenses and other miscellaneous obligations. It is possible that we may in the future have difficulty maintaining our surety bonds for mine reclamation. Due to current economic conditions and the volatility of the financial markets, surety bond providers may be less willing to provide us with surety bonds or maintain existing surety bonds or may demand terms that are less favorable to us than the terms we currently receive. We may have greater difficulty satisfying the liquidity requirements under our existing surety bond contracts. As of December 31, 2012, we had $37.7 million in reclamation surety bonds, secured by $8.9 million in letters of credit outstanding under our credit agreement. Our credit agreement provides for a $115.0 million working capital revolving credit facility, of which up to $20.0 million may be used for letters of credit. If we do not maintain sufficient borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility for additional letters of credit, we may be unable to obtain or renew surety bonds required for our mining operations. For more information, please read " Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facility." If we do not maintain sufficient borrowing capacity or have other resources to satisfy our surety and bonding requirements, our operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Defects in title in the properties that we own or loss of any leasehold interests could limit our ability to mine these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be materially adversely affected by actual or alleged defects in title or boundaries. In order to obtain leases or mining contracts to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may in the future have to incur unanticipated costs or could even lose our right to mine on that property, which could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, from time to time the rights of third parties for competing uses of adjacent, overlying or underlying lands such as for oil and gas activity, coal bed methane production, pipelines, roads, easements and public facilities may affect our ability to operate as planned if our title is not superior or arrangements cannot be negotiated. The amount of estimated reserve replacement expenditures that we are required to deduct from operating surplus each quarter is based on our current estimates and could increase in the future, resulting in a decrease in available cash from operating surplus that could be distributed to our unitholders. Reserve replacements are acquired through direct acquisition or lease. For 2013, we expect to enter into various leases to replace reserves mined in 2013, as leasing reserves allows us to better align our cash outflows with cash inflows from operations. We do not expect to incur reserve replacement direct acquisition expenditures. Our partnership agreement requires us to deduct from operating surplus each quarter estimated reserve replacement expenditures as opposed to actual reserve replacement expenditures in order to reduce disparities in operating surplus caused by fluctuating reserve replacement costs. This amount is based on our current estimates of the amounts of expenditures will be required to make in future years to maintain our depleting reserve base, which we believe to be reasonable. In the future, estimated reserve replacement expenditures may be more than our actual reserve replacement expenditures, which will reduce the amount of available cash from operating surplus that we would otherwise have available for distribution to unitholders. The amount of estimated reserve replacement expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the board of directors of our general partner at least once a year, subject to approval by the audit committee of the board of directors of our general partner, acting in its capacity as a conflicts committee. 43 Our hedging activities for diesel fuel may prevent us from benefiting from price decreases. We enter into forward contract arrangements for a portion of our anticipated diesel fuel and explosive needs. As of December 31, 2012, we had fixed-price fuel contracts for approximately 56.3% of our calendar year 2013 expected diesel fuel needs. Additionally we are protected by diesel fuel escalation provisions contained in coal supply contracts with some of our customers, allowing for a change in the price per coal ton sold. Price changes typically lag the changes in diesel fuel costs by one quarter and are recorded in coal sales. While our strategy provides us protection in the event of price increases to our diesel fuel, it may also prevent us from the benefits of price decreases. If prices for diesel fuel decreased significantly below our forward contracts, we would lose the benefit of any such decrease. The government extensively regulates mining operations, especially with respect to mine safety and health, which imposes significant actual and potential costs on us, and future regulation could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks to safety and health. As a result, the coal mining industry is subject to stringent safety and health standards. Fatal mining accidents in the United States in recent years have received national attention and have led to responses at the state and federal levels that have resulted in increased regulatory scrutiny of coal mining operations, particularly underground mining operations. More stringent state and federal mine safety laws and regulations have included increased sanctions for non-compliance. Future workplace accidents are likely to result in more stringent enforcement and possibly the passage of new laws and regulations. Within the last few years, the industry has seen enactment of the Federal Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, or the MINER Act, subsequent additional legislation and regulation imposing significant new safety initiatives and the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, imposes new mine safety information reporting requirements. The MINER Act significantly amended the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, or the Mine Act, imposing more extensive and stringent compliance standards, increasing criminal penalties and establishing a maximum civil penalty for non-compliance, and expanding the scope of federal oversight, inspection, and enforcement activities. Following the passage of the MINER Act, the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration, or MSHA, issued new or more stringent rules and policies on a variety of topics, including: • mine safety equipment, training and emergency reporting requirements; • substantially increased civil penalties for regulatory violations; and • training and availability of mine rescue teams. Subsequent to passage of the MINER Act, various coal producing states, including West Virginia, Ohio and Kentucky, have enacted legislation addressing issues such as mine safety and accident reporting, increased civil and criminal penalties, and increased inspections and oversight. Other states may pass similar legislation in the future. Additional federal and state legislation that would further increase mine safety regulation, inspection and enforcement, particularly with respect to underground mining operations, is being considered. MSHA is also considering a new rule regarding respirable coal mine dust that, if promulgated, would lower the allowable average concentration of respirable dust, allow for single shift sampling to determine noncompliance and establish regulations for the use of Continuous Personal Dust Monitors (“CPDM”), among other things. Although still in the comment stage, this proposed rule could require significant expenditures in order to comply. Although we are unable to quantify the full impact, implementing and complying with these new laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders and could result in harsher sanctions in the event of any violations. Please read "Part I, Item 1 - Business—Environmental, Safety and Other Regulatory Matters." 44 Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duties. Fiduciary duties owed to our unitholders by our general partner are prescribed by law and the partnership agreement. The Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, or the Delaware Act, provides that Delaware limited partnerships may, in their partnership agreements, restrict the fiduciary duties owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing common units, our unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law; • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership; • provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning our general partner honestly believed that the decision was in the best interests of the partnership; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the audit committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting as a conflicts committee, and not involving a vote of our unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will become bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above. 45 Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest with us, and their limited fiduciary duties to our unitholders may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. C&T Coal owns an 18.1% limited partner interest in us, AIM Oxford owns a 35.5% limited partner interest in us, and C&T Coal and AIM Oxford own substantially all of and control our general partner and its 2.0% general partner interest in us. Although our general partner has certain fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners. Furthermore, since certain executive officers and directors of our general partner are executive officers or directors of affiliates of our general partner, conflicts of interest may arise between C&T Coal and AIM Oxford and their affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. Please read “— Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duties.” The risk to our unitholders due to such conflicts may arise because of the following factors, among others: • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as C&T Coal and AIM Oxford, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires owners of our general partner to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Executive officers and directors of our general partner’s owners have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interest of their owners, which may be contrary to our interests; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings and issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; • our general partner determines our estimated reserve replacement expenditures, which reduce operating surplus, and that determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination periods; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. In addition, AIM currently holds substantial interests in other companies in the energy and natural resource sectors. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. However, AIM and AIM Oxford are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. As a result, they could potentially compete with us for acquisition opportunities and for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by us. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. 46 Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors or initially to remove our general partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen entirely by its members and not by our unitholders. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have limited ability to remove our general partner. Our unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because affiliates of our general partner own sufficient units to be able to prevent removal of our general partner. The vote of the holders of at least 80% of all outstanding common units and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Affiliates of our general partner own 54.6% of our common units and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner during the subordination period because of our unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the members of our general partner to transfer their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions and actions of the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. C&T Coal and AIM Oxford own an aggregate of 54.6% of our common units and subordinated units. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than the then-current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its limited call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the common units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. 47 We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Further, our partnership agreement does not prohibit the issuance of equity securities that may effectively rank senior to our common units. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner may, without unitholder approval, elect to cause us to issue common units and general partner units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and general partner units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain our general partner’s interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions on its incentive distribution rights based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public markets, including sales by our existing unitholders. As of December 31, 2012, a single unaffiliated unitholder owned 1,198,175, or 11.4%, of our common units. That unitholder may sell some or all of these units or it may distribute our common units to the holders of its equity interests and those holders may dispose of some or all of these units. The sale or disposition of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. We do not know whether any such sales would be made in the public market or in private placements, nor do we know what impact such potential or actual sales would have on our unit price in the future. 48 Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf, which will be determined by our general partner in its sole discretion in accordance with the terms of our partnership agreement. In determining the costs and expenses allocable to us, our general partner is subject to its fiduciary duty, as modified by our partnership agreement, to the limited partners, which requires it to act in good faith. These expenses include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us. We are managed and operated by executive officers and directors of our general partner. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner, upon receipt of such information, determines are not eligible citizens are not entitled to receive distributions or allocations of income or loss on their common units and their common units will be subject to redemption. Our general partner may require each limited partner to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or other related status within 30 days after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, the limited partner may be treated as a non-citizen assignee. A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units and subordinated units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen or fails to furnish the requested information. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, our unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that, for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Purchasers of units who become limited partners are liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Common units held by unitholders who are not eligible citizens will be subject to redemption. In order to comply with U.S. laws with respect to the ownership of interests in mineral leases on federal lands, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who own our common units. As used in this report, an eligible citizen means a person or entity qualified to hold an interest in mineral leases on federal lands. As of the date hereof, an eligible citizen must be: (1) a citizen of the United States; (2) a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; or (3) an association of U.S. citizens, such as a partnership or limited liability company, organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, but only if such association does not have any direct or indirect foreign ownership, other than foreign ownership of stock in a parent corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. For the avoidance of doubt, onshore mineral leases or any direct or indirect interest therein may be acquired and held by aliens only through stock ownership, holding or control in a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. Unitholders who are not persons or entities who meet the requirements to be an eligible citizen run the risk of having their units redeemed by us at the lower of their purchase price cost or the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. 49 Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35.0%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes there would be material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to you. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Recently, members of the U.S. Congress considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would have affected the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws or interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these changes or any other proposals will ultimately be enacted, any changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. 50 Certain federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to coal exploration and development may be eliminated in future legislation. Among the changes contained in President Obama’s Budget Proposal for Fiscal Year 2013, or the Budget Proposal, is the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences relating to coal exploration and development. The Budget Proposal would: (i) eliminate current deductions, the 60-month amortization period and the 10-year amortization period for exploration and development costs relating to coal and other hard mineral fossil fuels, (ii) repeal the percentage depletion allowance with respect to coal properties, (iii) repeal capital gains treatment of coal and lignite royalties and (iv) exclude from the definition of domestic production gross receipts all gross receipts derived from the production of coal and other hard mineral fossil fuels. The passage of any legislation as a result of the Budget Proposal or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to coal exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our unitholders’ share of our income is taxable to them for U.S. federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder is treated as a partner to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income is taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such common units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of your common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your common units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. 51 We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. 52 The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Each of these states currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 