D. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider all the information in this Annual Report, including various changing regulatory, competitive, economic, political and social risks and conditions described below, before making an investment in our ordinary shares. One or more of a combination of these risks could materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In any such case, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investments. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Sale of Honesty Group may not produce the benefits the Company anticipated, its transition to a “light-asset” model may take more time and the transition may not be successful. Honesty Group and its subsidiaries controlled our core manufacturing facility, including the land, buildings and production equipment. On November 15, 2011, we entered into the Sale of Honesty Group to sell our 100% ownership interest in Honesty Group to Apex for $76.0 million in total consideration. This transaction was completed. Our intention was to transition SGOCO from a “heavy-asset” business model to a “light-asset” business model with greater flexibility and scalability. But, we can neither guarantee the success of the transition nor predict how long will take to complete the transition. Following the Sale of Honesty Group, we discontinued consolidating the financial statements of Honesty Group. If Honesty Group were to be deemed a variable interest entity under U.S. GAAP, we would be required to consolidate its financial statements with ours. If that occurred, we may lose the benefit of the “light-asset” model, which would substantially change our financial condition. Pursuant to the Sale of Honesty Group, Apex assumed our obligations to pay the remaining registration capital of $8.8 million in Guanwei and to pay the remaining balance of approximately $14.0 million of the commitment to the Fujian Jinjiang government to invest in the Guanke Technology Park. The $8.8 million registration capital has been paid by Apex. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have not received any notice related to the above-referenced unpaid commitment. Whatever risk may have existed in this area was decreased by Honesty building two new dormitory buildings and a new factory facility in the Guanke Technology Park. But, there can be no assurance that Chinese governmental authorities will not claim that SGOCO must pay the unpaid commitment to Guanke Technology Park, if Apex fails to do so. Competition in our industry is intense and, if we are not able to compete effectively, we may lose customers and our financial results will be negatively affected. The LCD/ LED products industry in China is highly competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. We face competition from distributors and LCD/LED manufacturers that use their extensive brand-name value, manufacturing and marketing size, and in-house sales forces and exclusive sales agents to distribute their products. We compete for customers on the basis of, among other things, our product offerings, customer service and reputation. Some of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, design, marketing, distribution, management or other resources. Our results of operations could be affected by several competitive factors, including entry by new competitors into our current markets, expansion by existing competitors, better marketing and advertising leading to stronger brand equity for our competitors, and competition with other companies for the production capacity of contract manufacturers. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely impacted by these competitive factors. There can be no assurance that our strategies will remain competitive or that we will succeed in the future. Increased competition could result in a loss of market share. In particular, if our competitors adopt aggressive pricing policies, we may be forced to adjust the pricing of our products to improve our competitiveness. This could adversely affect our margins, profitability and financial results. Our industry has experienced declines in the average selling prices of display products irrespective of cyclical fluctuations in the industry, and our margins would be adversely impacted if prices decrease faster than we are able to reduce our costs. The average selling prices of display products have generally declined and are expected to continually decline with time regardless of industry-wide cyclical fluctuations because of, among other factors, technological advancements and cost reductions. We may be able to take advantage of the higher selling prices typically associated with new products and technologies when they are first introduced in the market. But, such prices decline over time and, in certain cases, very rapidly, because of market competition or otherwise. We may not be able to effectively anticipate and counter the price erosion that accompanies our products. In addition, the average selling prices of our display products may decrease faster than the speed at which we are able to reduce our purchasing costs. If those events occur, our gross margins would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 8 We sell most of our products through a few large distributors with whom we do not have long-term agreement, and, accordingly, we may have risks from our level of customer concentration. We derive a significant portion of our sales from several large independent, non-exclusive distributors. For 2013, 2012 and 2011, sales to our top two distributors accounted for 36.5%, 27.4% and 30.9%, respectively, of our total revenue. Our largest customers have generally changed from period-to-period. There were two, two and two customers each with more than 10% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We are exposed to the credit risks of our customers. We usually grant a credit period of 90 days to our customers. Our financial position and profitability is dependent on our customers’ creditworthiness. Thus, we are exposed to our customers’ credit risks, especially for larger orders. There is no assurance that we will not encounter doubtful or bad debts in the future. Due to economic conditions in China, in particular the risk of monetary and fiscal policies to address inflation, businesses in China are generally conserving cash or under increased financial and credit stress. As a result, we could experience slower payments from our customers, an increase in accounts receivable aging and/or an increase in bad debts. If we were to experience any unexpected delay or difficulty in collections from our customers, our cash flows and financial results would be adversely affected. We may not be able to retain, recruit and train adequate management, sales and marketing personnel, and our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may limit our development. Our future success significantly depends on our ability to retain the services of our executive management personnel, who have contributed to our prior growth and expansion and also to recruit talented executives to lead new initiatives. The industry experience, entrepreneurial skills and contributions of our executive directors and other members of our senior management are essential to our success. Our future success will depend on the continued service of our senior management team, including our new Chief Executive officer (“CEO”), Mr. David Xu, Vice President of Sales, Mr. Shi-bin Xie and Vice President of Product Development, Mr. Jin-feng Li as all of them have plentiful knowledge of the PC monitors and TV industry. Our CEO is responsible for the overall corporate strategy, planning and business development of SGOCO. His experience and leadership are critical to our operations and financial performance. If we lose their services and cannot replace them in a timely manner, it would reduce our competitiveness. That would adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and future prospects. We may not be able to generate any growth and our sales may continue to decrease in the future. We expanded our business rapidly during the years between 2006 and 2011. Our revenues, however, dropped significantly in 2012 primarily attributable to our significant reduction in the lower-margin trading and OEM businesses, loss of a few key clients and increased competition in China’s general display market. In 2013, there were an increase in sales of SGOCO brand and licensed brand products which resulted in an increase in overall sales for 2013. In the future, we may expand either through organic growth or through acquisitions and investments in related businesses. Such expansion may place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. We will need to generate future growth effectively, which will entail devising and implementing business plans, training and managing a growing workforce, managing costs and implementing adequate control and reporting systems in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that our personnel, procedures and controls will be managed effectively to support future growth adequately. Failure to manage expansion effectively would probably prevent us from executing our business plan and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we may not be able to generate any growth in the future. Accordingly, you should not rely on our historic growth rate as an indicator for our future growth rate. As the majority of our operations are in China, we may face risks related to health problems, including epidemics in China, which could adversely affect our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, other public health problems, or even an epidemic. From time-to-time, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in Asia would have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. 9 We depend on product manufacturing provided by outsourcing partners including Honesty Group. The majority of our manufacturing is performed by a few suppliers including Honesty Group and its subsidiaries, which are now independent of the Company. SGOCO has also sourced products from other manufacturers. While these arrangements may lower costs, they also reduce our direct control over production. As a result, it is not certain that the quality or quantity of products or our ability to respond to changing conditions will be the same as it was when SGOCO controlled manufacturing. There are no long-term contracts with the suppliers or manufacturers except for the contract with Apex, described below in Item 4.A., in the Sales and Purchase Agreement for Honesty Group. This contract will be expire in November 2014 and we are evaluating the renewal. If manufacturers determine not to continue business with us, or if manufacturing by Honesty Group or other suppliers is disrupted for any reason, including extreme weather conditions, landslides, earthquakes, fires, natural catastrophes, raw material supply disruptions, equipment and system failures, labor force shortages, energy shortages, workforce actions, environmental issues, bankruptcy, or change of control, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected due to concentration on a few key manufacturers or finished-goods suppliers. Problems with product quality, including defects, in our LCD/LED products could result in fewer customers and decreased sales, and unexpected expenses. Except for OEM products, our products are mainly designed by our product development teams and are outsourced for production using advanced and often new technology and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products manufactured using advanced and new technology may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our LCD/LED products may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or installed, because we cannot test for all possible problems or defects. Such defects could cause us to incur significant re-design costs, divert the attention of our technology personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. In addition, future product failures could cause our suppliers or manufacturers to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. Our products, including custom systems, are subject to warranty obligations. Generally, these requirements obligate our outsourced manufacturers to provide a minimum of a one-year repair or replacement obligation. If the product cannot be repaired after two attempts during the one-year warranty period, the manufacturers or suppliers must offer the end-customer a replacement. If we deliver LCD/LED products with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our LCD/LED products contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products would be harmed. Widespread product failures would increase our warranty costs, damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline. Although our warranty obligations to our customers for the display panels are essentially borne by our manufacturers with warranty period for one year, the product failures could increase the warranty costs of our display panel manufacturers who may then transfer their costs to us and ultimately to the end-customers. SGOCO International has unfulfilled registered capital obligations for its subsidiaries. SGOCO International’s subsidiary, SGOCO Shenzhen, was formed on November 14, 2013, with a registered capital of $5,000,000. Under PRC law, a company’s registered capital is treated as corporate property, and it is each shareholder’s obligation to fulfill its registered capital contribution according to PRC law and the Company’s charter documents. The charter document for each PRC company, which consists of the Company’s articles of association, states the amount of registered capital required to be paid. SGOCO International has the obligation to fulfill the registered capital obligations of SGOCO Shenzhen. SGOCO International is required to pay $1,000,000 and the remaining $4,000,000 within 3 months and within two years, respectively, of the date of issuance of the subsidiary’s business license according to PRC registration capital management rules. SGOCO International is in the process of arranging to pay the initial capital of $1,000,000. If it fails to contribute the required capital, it will have to apply for a reduction in the remaining registered capital, which may not be granted. Also, if SGOCO International fails to contribute the registered capital, it may be penalized with fines of 5–15% of the amount of unpaid capital. In addition, in certain cases, the business license for SGOCO Shenzhen may be revoked, preventing them from conducting business in China. If SGOCO International is required to fund the remaining registered capital, it may need to raise external funds. But, there is no assurance that sufficient external funds could be raised to pay the registered capital amount. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, which is a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. SAFE Circular 142 requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the Company's business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority. It may not be used for equity investments within the PRC, unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company. 10 Material advances for finished goods purchases may increase risk of loss resulting from non-delivery of goods by our suppliers. We periodically make prepayments to a few suppliers. Material prepayment we make for finished goods increases our exposure to loss resulting from potential non-delivery of goods by suppliers or refund of prepayments by suppliers. Our market is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences and we may not be able to predict or meet consumer preferences or demand accurately. We derive a significant amount of revenue from the LCD/LED products that are subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences. Our sales and profits are sensitive to these changing preferences. Our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that we cannot predict with certainty. If we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized use of our brand names by third parties may adversely affect our business. We consider our brand names critical to our success. Due to the nature of our business, we do not have administrative protection from patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets covering branding, distributing and marketing of LCD/LED products. Our continued ability to differentiate ourselves from other LCD/LED products distributors and other potential new entrants depends substantially on our ability to preserve the value of our brand names. We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies, and agreements with our employees and business partners to protect the value of our brand names. In particular, “SGOCO,” and “POVISON” marks are registered in the PRC and are approved by the State Trademark Bureau of the PRC to be transferred to SGOCO International in Hong Kong. But, there can be no assurance that the measures we take in this regard are adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our brand names. For example, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our brand names in a timely manner because our ability to determine whether other parties have infringed our brand names is generally limited to information from publicly available sources. To preserve the value of our brand names, we may need to take legal actions against third parties. Nonetheless, because the validity, enforceability and scope of trademark protection in the PRC are not certain and still evolving, legal action may not be successful. Further, future litigation could also result in substantially increasing our costs, diverting our resources and disrupting our business. We may not be able to secure financing needed for future operating needs on favorable terms, or on any terms at all. From time-to-time, we may seek additional financing to provide the capital required to maintain our business, if cash flow from operations is not sufficient to do so. We cannot predict with certainty the timing or amount of any such capital requirements. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may not be able to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are able to incur debt, lenders may impose certain restrictions. In addition, repaying such debt may limit our cash flow and our ability to grow. If we are not able to incur debt, we may be forced to issue additional equity, which would have a dilutive effect on our shares. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ordinary shares and warrants. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: 1. at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income; or 2. at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) are attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder of our ordinary shares, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Our actual PFIC status for any taxable year will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to our status as a PFIC for any taxable year. U.S. Holders of our ordinary shares are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. 11 Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain SEC requirements that provide shareholders the protection of information that must be made available to shareholders of U.S. public companies. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies including: 1. the rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; 2. the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations regarding a security registered under the Exchange Act; 3. provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and 4. the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions ( i.e. , a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, our shareholders will not be provided with the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the U.S. Expansion of our business may increase pressure on our management, which may impede our ability to meet any increased demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business plan is to grow our operations profitably. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: 1. customers continuing to accept our LCD/LED products; 2. our ability to successfully and rapidly expand our marketing program to reach potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; 3. the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; 4. the competition from larger, better capitalized and well-known competitors and the effect of rapid technological change; 5. the highly competitive nature of our industry; and 6. the continued availability and favorable pricing of the raw materials and components used in our products. If we are successful growing our marketing program, we may be required to provide various support and deliver LCD/LED products to our customers. In addition, we may not be able to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and results of operations. Under the Enterprise Income Taxes Law, SGOCO may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification could result in adverse tax consequences to SGOCO and its non-PRC resident shareholders. Under the Enterprise Income Taxes (EIT) Law and the Implementing Rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered as a resident enterprise and will be subject to PRC income tax on its global income. According to the Implementing Rules, “de facto management bodies” refer to “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” Accordingly, our holding company, SGOCO Group, Ltd., may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to PRC income tax on our global income. The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in China. Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those invested in by individuals or foreign enterprises like SGOCO. But, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or controlled by or invested in by individuals or foreign enterprises. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, such PRC income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Since the EIT Law became effective in 2008, SGOCO has not been treated as a “resident enterprise.” 12 If the PRC tax authorities determine that SGOCO is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. First, SGOCO may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on SGOCO’s worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. As a result, if both SGOCO and SGOCO International are treated as PRC “resident enterprises,” all dividends from the PRC operating subsidiaries to SGOCO International and from SGOCO International to SGOCO would be exempt from PRC tax. If SGOCO were treated as a PRC “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, then dividends that SGOCO receives from its PRC operating subsidiaries (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC): 1. may be subject to a 5% PRC withholding tax, if the Arrangement between the Mainland of China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion regarding Taxes on Income (the “PRC-Hong Kong Tax Treaty”) is applicable; or 2. may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax, if such treaty does not apply ( i.e. , because the PRC tax authorities may deem SGOCO International to be a conduit not entitled to treaty benefits). Any such taxes on dividends could materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, SGOCO could pay to its shareholders. Finally, the “resident enterprise” classification could result in a 10% PRC tax being imposed on dividends SGOCO pays to its non-PRC shareholders that are not PRC tax “resident enterprises” and gains derived by them from transferring SGOCO’s ordinary shares, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. In such event, SGOCO may be required to withhold the 10% PRC tax on any dividends paid to its non-PRC resident shareholders. SGOCO’s non-PRC resident shareholders also may be responsible for paying PRC tax at a rate of 10% on any gain realized from the sale or transfer of ordinary shares in certain circumstances. SGOCO would not, however, have an obligation to withhold PRC tax regarding such gain. If any such PRC taxes apply, a non-PRC resident shareholder may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC taxes under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a foreign tax credit against such shareholder’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). According to the Notice of the Provisional Regulation of Non-PRC Residents’ Enjoyment of the Preferential Treatment of Tax Treaty, Circular 124, on August 24, 2009, issued by the State Administration of Taxation, the non-PRC shareholders located in countries which have income tax treaties with China may be taxed at a reduced rate lower than 10%. Prospective investors should consult with their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available foreign tax credits. Intercompany loans from SGOCO to its operating subsidiaries must comply with PRC law. Any loans we make to our Chinese subsidiaries, which are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under Chinese law, cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterparts. Under applicable Chinese law, the Chinese regulators must approve the amount of a foreign-invested enterprise’s registered capital, which represents shareholders’ equity investments over a defined period of time, and the foreign-invested enterprise’s total investment, which represents the total of the Company’s registered capital plus permitted loans. The ratio of registered capital to total investment cannot be lower than the minimum statutory requirement and the excess of the total investment over the registered capital represents the maximum amount of borrowings that a foreign invested enterprise is permitted to have under Chinese law. If we lend money to our Chinese subsidiaries and such funds exceed the permitted amount of borrowings of the subsidiary, we would have to apply to the relevant government authorities to increase the permitted total investment amounts. The various applications could be time consuming and their outcomes would be uncertain. Concurrently with the loans, we might have to make capital contributions to the subsidiaries in order to maintain the statutory minimum registered capital/total investment ratio, and such capital contributions involve uncertainties of their own, as discussed below. Furthermore, even if we make loans to our Chinese subsidiaries that do not exceed their current permitted amount of borrowings, we will have to register each loan with SAFE or its local counterpart within 15 days after signing the relevant loan agreement. Subject to SAFE’s stipulated conditions, SAFE or its local counterpart is supposed to issue a registration certificate of foreign debts within 20 days after reviewing and accepting its application. In practice, it may take longer to complete such SAFE registration process. We cannot be sure that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, regarding future loans by us to our Chinese subsidiaries or affiliated entities or regarding future capital contributions by us to our Chinese subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to use such future loans or capital contributions to capitalize or otherwise fund our Chinese operations may be negatively affected, which would adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 13 A severe or prolonged downturn in the global economy could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The global market and economic conditions during the years 2008 through 2012 were unprecedented and challenging, with recessions occurring in most major economies. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, sovereign debt issues, and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The difficult economic outlook has negatively affected businesses and consumer confidence and contributed to significant volatility. Government responses to these events have included partial nationalization of certain industries and enterprises, “bail-out” packages intended to provide liquidity to market participants and several high profile acquisitions and bankruptcies. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis in 2011 and 2012. The global economy has been recovering from the European sovereign debt crisis in 2013. There is continuing uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which may result in higher oil prices and significant market volatility. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Any prolonged slowdown in the global and/or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their respective annual reports. This annual report does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting because we are currently a non-accelerated filer and therefore, not required to obtain such report. Our management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 were effective. We have in the past and may in the future discover material weakness in our internal controls. For example, we identified material weaknesses related to the lack of sufficient qualified accounting personnel with appropriate understanding of U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements commensurate with our financial reporting requirements as described under Item 15 of our annual report in form 20-F for fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, which were subsequently remediated in fiscal year 2013 as described under Item 15 of this annual report. However, there is no guarantee that these remedies will continue to be effective. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could result in us not being able to accurately report our financial results, prevent or detect fraud or provide timely and reliable financial and other information pursuant to the reporting obligations we have as a public company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This could reduce investors’ confidence in our reported financial information, which in turn could result in lawsuits being filed against us by our stockholders, otherwise harm our reputation or negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. We have granted shares to our PRC employees, which may require registration with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to issue equity compensation to our directors and employees and other parties who are PRC citizens or residents under PRC law. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by individuals (both PRC or non-PRC citizens) under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rules, which replaced the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies issued by SAFE in March 2007.Under these rules, PRC residents who participate in stock incentive plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE or its local branches and complete certain other procedures. Participants of a stock incentive plan who are PRC residents must retain a qualified PRC agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company or another qualified institution selected by such PRC subsidiary, to conduct the SAFE registration and other procedures with respect to the stock incentive plan on behalf of its participants. Such participants must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options, the purchase and sale of corresponding stocks or interests and fund transfers. In addition, the PRC agent is required to amend the SAFE registration with respect to the stock incentive plan if there is any material change to the stock incentive plan, the PRC agent or the overseas entrusted institution or other material changes. We have adopted an equity compensation plan and have begun to make option grants to some of our key employees, three of whom are PRC citizens. If we or our PRC recipients of such options fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option grantees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. 14 PRC SAFE Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. Recent regulations promulgated by SAFE regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undergone a number of changes which may increase the administrative burden we face. The failure by our stockholders and affiliates who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident stockholders to liability under PRC law. In 2005, SAFE promulgated regulations in the form of public notices, which require registrations with, and approval from, SAFE on direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC resident individuals. The SAFE regulations require that if an offshore company directly or indirectly formed by or controlled by PRC resident individuals, known as “SPC,” intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the SAFE. Without registration, the PRC entity cannot remit any of its profits out of the PRC as dividends or otherwise. This could have a material adverse effect on us given that we are a publicly listed company in the U.S. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our competitive position. Our development and sales operations will continue to be focused on and conducted in China, and a substantial portion of our sales will continue to be made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: 1. the amount of government involvement; 2. the level of development; 3. the growth rate; 4. the control of foreign exchange; and 5. the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a positive or negative effect on us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years, the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises. But, the Chinese government still owns a substantial portion of the productive assets in China. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. The Chinese government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to reduced demand for our products. Investors may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on U.S. judgments against us or our subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, directors and shareholders. A majority of our assets are located outside of the U.S. and most of our directors and executive officers reside outside of the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the U.S. to effect service of process within the U.S. or elsewhere outside China on us, our subsidiaries, officers, directors and shareholders, and others. This can be particularly important regarding matters arising under U.S. federal or state securities laws. 15 China does not have treaties providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the U.S. and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of these judgments in relation to any matter, including U.S. securities laws and the laws of the Cayman Islands, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in China against our assets or our subsidiaries, officers, directors, shareholders and advisors only if: 1. the actions are not required to be arbitrated by Chinese law; 2. the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under Chinese law; and 3. the actions satisfy certain prerequisite conditions prescribed by Chinese law. Connected with such an original action, a Chinese court may award civil remedies, including monetary damages. Notwithstanding the ability to bring original actions, we do not believe it is likely that the courts in China would entertain original actions brought in China against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the U.S. or any state or territory within the U.S. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China and to the extent their audit clients have operations in China and Hong Kong, is not permitted to be inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm issues the audit report included in this Annual Report filed with the SEC. As auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the U.S., our public accounting firm is registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”). It is required by U.S. laws to be regularly inspected by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the U.S. laws and professional standards. Our operations, however, are mainly located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently not able to conduct inspections without the approval of PRC authorities. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China and Hong Kong (to the extent their audit clients have operations in China), is currently not subject to inspection by the PCAOB. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with the PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. Inspections of some other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures. Certain deficiencies revealed in the inspection process can be addressed to improve future audit quality. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors operating in China makes it difficult to evaluate our auditor’s audit procedures and quality control procedures. As a result, our investors may not receive the benefits of the PCAOB inspections. We face uncertainties regarding indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC holding companies. The Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular 698, was issued by the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, on December 10, 2009. It has retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise indirectly via disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: 1. has an effective tax rate less than 12.5%; or 2. does not tax foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, shall report to the relevant tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise this Indirect Transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the parties. The application of SAT Circular 698 is not certain. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the tax authority has not yet: 1. promulgated any formal rules; 2. formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax rates in foreign tax jurisdictions; and 16 3. provided the process and format of the reporting of an Indirect Transfer to the tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise. In addition, there are no formal declarations regarding how to determine whether a foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. SAT Circular 698 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to our private equity financing transactions where non-resident investors were involved, if any of such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, we and our non-resident investors in such transactions may be at risk of being taxed under SAT Circular 698. We have accrued $5.4 million in the income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 on the Sale of Honesty Group and the amount remained unpaid as of the date of this Annual Report. We have already submitted relevant documents to the PRC tax bureau regarding the Sales of Honesty Group. We may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Circular 698. This may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Future changes in laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China could adversely affect our business. Laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China are evolving and subject to future changes. Future changes in laws, regulations or administrative interpretations, or stricter enforcement policies by the Chinese government, could impose more stringent requirements on us, including fines or other penalties. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may also affect our operating costs. Compliance with these requirements could impose substantial additional costs or otherwise adversely affect our future growth. These changes may relax some requirements, which could be beneficial to our competitors or could lower market entry barriers and increase competition. In addition, any litigation or governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Uncertainties regarding the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on statutes. Unlike the common-law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential authority in China. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections provided to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct the majority of our business through our subsidiaries, SGOCO (Fujian), Beijing SGOCO and SGOCO Shenzhen, which were established in China. As a result, we will be subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. But, since the Chinese legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. In addition, enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, we may have to file administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we or our subsidiaries enjoy either by law or contract. Chinese administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms. Consequently, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection that we would enjoy compared to more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce contracts or other rights. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may be less effective than in the U.S. or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement of these laws, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and our shareholders. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted, substantially increase our costs and divert our resources and management’s attention. If China imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, China’s future economic growth could be curtailed which could adversely affect our business and results of operation. China’s economy has experienced rapid growth. But, this growth has varied among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. To control inflation, the Chinese government may impose controls on bank credit, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. If similar restrictions are imposed, it may lead to a slowing of economic growth and decrease the interest in our LCD/LED products leading to a decline in our profitability. Changes in foreign exchange regulations in China may affect our operating subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. RMB is not a freely convertible currency currently, and the restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. Dollars. In China, SAFE regulates the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Over the years, foreign exchange regulations in China have significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts ( i.e. , remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, etc.). 17 Conversion of RMB for capital account items, such as direct investment, loan, security investment and repatriation of investment, is still subject to the approval of the SAFE. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, SGOCO International’s Chinese primary operating subsidiaries, SGOCO (Fujian), Beijing SGOCO and SGOCO Shenzhen, are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the Chinese government subsequently may restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Fluctuating value of the Renminbi may reduce our profitability. The change in value of the RMB against U.S. Dollars, and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. On March 17, 2014, the People’s Bank of China announced that the RMB exchange rate flexibility increased to 2% in order to proceed further with reform of the RMB exchange rate regime. These could result in a further and more significant floatation in the RMB’s value against the U.S. Dollars. The international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive. But, international pressure continues to be placed on the Chinese government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in significant fluctuation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollars. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. Dollars we receive into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollars would reduce the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. Dollars to make payments for dividends on our shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. Dollars against the RMB would reduce the U.S. Dollars amount available to us. Exchange controls that exist in China may limit our ability to use our cash flows effectively. Most of our revenues and expenses are denominated in RMB. We may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends, if any, regarding our shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, we are able to purchase foreign exchange for settlement of current account transactions, including payment of dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. But, the Chinese government may take further measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use cash flows for distributing dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we have outside of China. Foreign exchange transactions continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or registration with the Chinese governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if SGOCO International receives foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE. In addition, if we finance SGOCO International by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These potential restrictions could affect the ability of SGOCO International to obtain additional foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms could result in adverse impact on our business and price of our stock. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the PRC-based units of five accounting firms. The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ failure to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditors or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an Initial Decision that the PRC-based units of the "big four" accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the SEC for six months. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have indicated their intention to file a petition for review of the Initial Decision and pending that review the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. It will, therefore, be for the SEC to make a legally binding order specifying the sanctions if any to be placed on these audit firms. Once such an order was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the US federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further suspended pending the outcome of that appeal. 18 Depending upon the final outcome, public companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which may result in SEC’s revocation of the registration of their shares under the Exchange Act. Moreover, although our independent registered public accounting firm was not named as a defendant in the above SEC administrative proceedings, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may erode investor confidence in China-based, US public companies, including us, and the market price of our shares may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Shares We may fail to meet continued listing requirements on the NASDAQ Capital Market Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We must comply with various NASDAQ Marketplace rules to maintain the listing of our securities. The NASDAQ listing rules require, among other things, that a company’s stock trading to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00. If a NASDAQ-listed company trades below the minimum bid price requirement for 30 consecutive business days, it will be notified of the deficiency. To regain compliance with the minimum, bid price requirement, the Company must have a minimum, closing bid price of $1.00 or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days during a 180-day compliance period. If compliance does not occur within the applicable 180-day compliance period, the Staff will notify the Company that its securities will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. However, the Company may appeal the Staff's determination to delist its securities to a Hearing Panel. During any appeal process, the Company's ordinary shares would continue to trade on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our securities were to be delisted from NASDAQ, the trading of our securities could possibly be shifted to the OTC Bulletin Board or the Pink Sheets. But, that would make it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our securities. In addition, such a development would likely also reduce the already limited coverage of our Company by security analysts and the news media. Delisting and these other effects could cause the price of our securities to decline further. The market price for our ordinary shares may be volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: 1. actual or anticipated fluctuations in our annual and quarterly operating results and changes or revisions in our expected results; 2. changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; 3. market conditions for LCD/LED products marketing and distribution; 4. changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies specializing in LCD/LED product marketing and distribution; 5. announcements by us and our affiliates or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 6. addition or departure of our senior management and key research and development personnel; 7. fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. Dollars; 8. litigation related to our intellectual property; 9. changes in investors’ perception toward U.S.-listed Chinese companies; 10. release or expiry of transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares; and 11. sales or perceived potential sales of our ordinary shares. 19 In addition, the securities market has from time-to-time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. Approximately 53.0% of our ordinary shares are held by one shareholder. This voting control may limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors. Sun Zone Investments Limited is owned by our Chairman, Mr. Tin Man Or. It currently owns approximately 53.0% of our voting shares. This shareholder can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and the approval of other business transactions. This concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company, which could prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. We do not expect to pay dividends, so our shareholders will only benefit from an investment in our shares if such shares appreciate in value. Currently, we do not expect to pay dividends to our shareholders. The Board of Directors may determine to pay dividends in the future, depending upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including restrictions in credit agreements, imposed by applicable law, and the laws of China governing dividend payments, currency conversion and loans, and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Accordingly, realizing a gain on shareholders’ investments currently depends on whether the price of our shares appreciates in the securities exchange on which our shares trade. There is no guarantee that our shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders purchased their shares. Shares to be potentially issued may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. As of December 31, 2013, we had 17,660,356 ordinary shares and 598,850 warrants outstanding. We issued an option to purchase up to a total of 280,000 units at $10.00 per unit to the underwriters in our IPO, which, if exercised, would result in the issuance of 280,000 shares and 280,000 warrants. As of December 31, 2013, there are also issued and outstanding warrants to purchase 13,571 ordinary shares at $6.00 per share to the underwriters of our December 2010 offering. On March 7, 2014, the 598,850 warrants and 280,000 unit options were lapsed upon expiry. In November 2010, our shareholders approved the adoption of a stock incentive plan that provides for the issuance of stock options, restricted stock or other awards up to 7% of the fully diluted outstanding shares to the employees, directors and consultants of SGOCO and its subsidiaries. In addition, we have authorized capital stock under our charter of 50,000,000 ordinary shares and 1,000,000 preferred shares. Subject to any restrictions under NASDAQ rules, these shares may be issued without shareholder approval. The sale or even the possibility of sale of the foregoing shares could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. Upon the issuance of the additional shares, you would probably experience dilution to your holdings. Due to the lack of unrestricted ordinary shares available to be sold, liquidity for our ordinary shares is limited. As of December 31, 2013, we had 17,660,356 ordinary shares outstanding. Of these shares, approximately 2.4 million ordinary shares are held by persons not affiliated with us currently and are freely eligible to be resold in the public market. The remaining shares are either being held in escrow or are “restricted” securities not eligible to be resold in the public market. As a result of the lack of unrestricted securities available to be resold in the public market, there is limited liquidity in our ordinary shares, which may limit your ability to sell your ordinary shares of SGOCO or reduce the price at which the shares may be sold. In addition, the lack of a liquid market in our shares may make the listed market price of our shares less meaningful and more volatile. Volatility in the price of our ordinary shares may result in shareholder litigation that could in turn result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. The financial markets in the U.S. and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the price of our ordinary shares may be caused by factors outside of our control, which may not be related or may be disproportionate to our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against various companies. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 20 If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny involving U.S. listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and/or defend the matter, which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation. During the last several years, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China have been the subject of intense scrutiny by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies. Much of the scrutiny has centered on financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, lacks of effective internal controls over financial reporting and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies that have been the subject of such scrutiny has sharply decreased in value. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and/or SEC enforcement actions that are conducting internal and/or external investigations into the allegations. If we become the subject of any such scrutiny, whether any allegations are true or not, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend the Company. Such investigations or allegations will be costly and time-consuming and distract our management from our normal business and could result in our reputation being harmed. Our stock price could decline because of such allegations, even if the allegations are false. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through U.S. courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are an exempt company incorporated under Cayman Islands’ laws. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law, Cap. 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) of the Cayman Islands and Cayman Islands’ common law. Shareholders’ rights to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands’ law are largely governed by Cayman Islands’ common law. It is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands and from England’s common law. English court decisions, however, are not binding on a Cayman Islands’ court. Our shareholders’ rights and our directors’ fiduciary responsibilities under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under the statutes or case law in most U.S. jurisdictions. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the U.S. Many U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. The Cayman Islands’ courts are also not likely: 1. to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the U.S. based on civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and 2. to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the U.S., But, the Cayman Islands’ courts will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Based on the above, shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests against actions taken by management, members of the Board of Directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the U.S. As a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, we can adopt certain home country practices regarding corporate governance matters that differ significantly from the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards. These practices may provide less protection to shareholders than they would enjoy if we complied fully with the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards. As a Cayman Islands company listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, we are subject to the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards. But, NASDAQ Stock Market rules permit a foreign private issuer like us to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country. Certain corporate governance practices in the Cayman Islands, which is our home country, may differ significantly from the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards. For example, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands does not require a majority of our directors to be independent. Therefore, we could include non-independent directors as members of our compensation committee and (if we chose to have one) our nominating committee. Finally, our independent directors would not necessarily hold regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. In addition, while NASDAQ Stock Market rules require that an issuer listing common stock hold an annual meeting of shareholders no later than one year after the end of the issuer’s fiscal year-end, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands does not require it. If we choose to follow home country practice, our shareholders may receive less protection than they otherwise would under the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. 21 